Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.
Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young.
Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been.
True terror is to wake up one morning and discover that your high school class is running the country.
A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never remembers her age.
As I grow older, I pay less attention to what men say. I just watch what they do.
How incessant and great are the ills with which a prolonged old age is replete.
Old age, believe me, is a good and pleasant thing. It is true you are gently shouldered off the stage, but then you are given such a comfortable front stall as spectator.
Old age has deformities enough of its own. It should never add to them the deformity of vice.
Nobody grows old merely by living a number of years. We grow old by deserting our ideals. Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul.
An archaeologist is the best husband a woman can have. The older she gets the more interested he is in her.
All diseases run into one, old age.
Bashfulness is an ornament to youth, but a reproach to old age.
Like everyone else who makes the mistake of getting older, I begin each day with coffee and obituaries.
Age appears to be best in four things old wood best to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to trust, and old authors to read.
None are so old as those who have outlived enthusiasm.
Every man over forty is a scoundrel.
Forty is the old age of youth fifty the youth of old age.
You can't help getting older, but you don't have to get old.
Alas, after a certain age every man is responsible for his face.
Youth is when you're allowed to stay up late on New Year's Eve. Middle age is when you're forced to.
Old age is like everything else. To make a success of it, you've got to start young.
A comfortable old age is the reward of a well-spent youth. Instead of its bringing sad and melancholy prospects of decay, it would give us hopes of eternal youth in a better world.
A man growing old becomes a child again.
I will never be an old man. To me, old age is always 15 years older than I am.
Age considers youth ventures.
What most persons consider as virtue, after the age of 40 is simply a loss of energy.
Age is a very high price to pay for maturity.
Old age is no place for sissies.
I don't feel old. I don't feel anything till noon. That's when it's time for my nap.
As I approve of a youth that has something of the old man in him, so I am no less pleased with an old man that has something of the youth. He that follows this rule may be old in body, but can never be so in mind.
I don't believe one grows older. I think that what happens early on in life is that at a certain age one stands still and stagnates.
Advice in old age is foolish for what can be more absurd than to increase our provisions for the road the nearer we approach to our journey's end.
When grace is joined with wrinkles, it is adorable. There is an unspeakable dawn in happy old age.
It takes a long time to become young.
After thirty, a body has a mind of its own.
There is a fountain of youth: it is your mind, your talents, the creativity you bring to your life and the lives of people you love. When you learn to tap this source, you will truly have defeated age.
Age is not a particularly interesting subject. Anyone can get old. All you have to do is live long enough.
Old minds are like old horses you must exercise them if you wish to keep them in working order.
Forty is the old age of youth, fifty is the youth of old age.
Youth is the gift of nature, but age is a work of art.
Preparation for old age should begin not later than one's teens. A life which is empty of purpose until 65 will not suddenly become filled on retirement.
There is always some specific moment when we become aware that our youth is gone but, years after, we know it was much later.
Growing old is no more than a bad habit which a busy person has no time to form.
As long as any adult thinks that he, like the parents and teachers of old, can become introspective, invoking his own youth to understand the youth before him, he is lost.
Old age is fifteen years older than I am.
Aging is not lost youth but a new stage of opportunity and strength.
The great secret that all old people share is that you really haven't changed in seventy or eighty years. Your body changes, but you don't change at all. And that, of course, causes great confusion.
The trick is growing up without growing old.
Old age comes on suddenly, and not gradually as is thought.
I think your whole life shows in your face and you should be proud of that.
I'm happy to report that my inner child is still ageless.
Youth is the best time to be rich, and the best time to be poor.
It is sad to grow old but nice to ripen.
One of the many things nobody ever tells you about middle age is that it's such a nice change from being young.
After you're older, two things are possibly more important than any others: health and money.
You end up as you deserve. In old age you must put up with the face, the friends, the health, and the children you have earned.
I'm not interested in age. People who tell me their age are silly. You're as old as you feel.
Inflation is when you pay fifteen dollars for the ten-dollar haircut you used to get for five dollars when you had hair.
My notion of a wife at 40 is that a man should be able to change her, like a bank note, for two 20s.
As you age naturally, your family shows more and more on your face. If you deny that, you deny your heritage.
Old age is like a plane flying through a storm. Once you're aboard, there's nothing you can do.
In youth the days are short and the years are long. In old age the years are short and day's long.
The aging process has you firmly in its grasp if you never get the urge to throw a snowball.
Age is how we determine how valuable you are.
Middle age is when your age starts to show around your middle.
Aging seems to be the only available way to live a long life.
I think when the full horror of being fifty hits you, you should stay home and have a good cry.
To keep the heart unwrinkled, to be hopeful, kindly, cheerful, reverent that is to triumph over old age.
If you're old, don't try to change yourself, change your environment.
Old age is an excellent time for outrage. My goal is to say or do at least one outrageous thing every week.
I want to get old gracefully. I want to have good posture, I want to be healthy and be an example to my children.
You know you're getting old when all the names in your black book have M. D. after them.
What makes old age so sad is not that our joys but our hopes cease.
Old age is a shipwreck.
While one finds company in himself and his pursuits, he cannot feel old, no matter what his years may be.
To resist the frigidity of old age, one must combine the body, the mind, and the heart. And to keep these in parallel vigor one must exercise, study, and love.
Old age is the most unexpected of all the things that can happen to a man.
No one can avoid aging, but aging productively is something else.
If you haven't turned rebel by twenty you've got no heart if you haven't turned establishment by thirty you've got no brains!
Oh rage! Oh despair! Oh age, my enemy!
I don't want to fight aging I want to take good care of myself, but plastic surgery and all that? I'm not interested.
Middle age is the time when a man is always thinking that in a week or two he will feel as good as ever.
We should so provide for old age that it may have no urgent wants of this world to absorb it from meditation on the next. It is awful to see the lean hands of dotage making a coffer of the grave.
Middle age is the awkward period when Father Time starts catching up with Mother Nature.
Middle age is youth without levity, and age without decay.
No man is ever old enough to know better.
The denunciation of the young is a necessary part of the hygiene of older people, and greatly assists the circulation of the blood.
In youth we run into difficulties. In old age difficulties run into us.
We pay when old for the excesses of youth.
The answer to old age is to keep one's mind busy and to go on with one's life as if it were interminable. I always admired Chekhov for building a new house when he was dying of tuberculosis.
We've put more effort into helping folks reach old age than into helping them enjoy it.
The real sadness of fifty is not that you change so much but that you change so little.
I'm not afraid of aging.
He has a profound respect for old age. Especially when it's bottled.
Whatever poet, orator or sage may say of it, old age is still old age.
To keep the heart unwrinkled, to be hopeful, kindly, cheerful, reverent - that is to triumph over old age.
In old age we are like a batch of letters that someone has sent. We are no longer in the past, we have arrived.
There's no such thing as old age, there is only sorrow.
Those who love deeply never grow old they may die of old age, but they die young.
I get all fired up about aging in America.
The really frightening thing about middle age is the knowledge that you'll grow out of it.
There is an anti-aging possibility, but it has to come from within.
The lovely thing about being forty is that you can appreciate twenty-five-year-old men more.
When a noble life has prepared old age, it is not decline that it reveals, but the first days of immortality.
The whole business of marshaling one's energies becomes more and more important as one grows older.
The tendency of old age to the body, say the physiologists, is to form bone. It is as rare as it is pleasant to meet with an old man whose opinions are not ossified.
Old age adds to the respect due to virtue, but it takes nothing from the contempt inspired by vice it whitens only the hair.
As men get older, the toys get more expensive.
I find that a man is as old as his work. If his work keeps him from moving forward, he will look forward with the work.
Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.
Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking.
Confusion of goals and perfection of means seems, in my opinion, to characterize our age.
Perfection of means and confusion of ends seem to characterize our age.
The age of a woman doesn't mean a thing. The best tunes are played on the oldest fiddles.
Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen.
A stockbroker urged me to buy a stock that would triple its value every year. I told him, 'At my age, I don't even buy green bananas.'
When marrying, ask yourself this question: Do you believe that you will be able to converse well with this person into your old age? Everything else in marriage is transitory.
Probably the happiest period in life most frequently is in middle age, when the eager passions of youth are cooled, and the infirmities of age not yet begun as we see that the shadows, which are at morning and evening so large, almost entirely disappear at midday.
Age is whatever you think it is. You are as old as you think you are.
As human beings, our greatness lies not so much in being able to remake the world - that is the myth of the atomic age - as in being able to remake ourselves.
A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
In every country and every age, the priest had been hostile to Liberty.
The heresy of one age becomes the orthodoxy of the next.
The golden age is before us, not behind us.
Every formula of every religion has in this age of reason, to submit to the acid test of reason and universal assent.
Thomas Jefferson once said, 'We should never judge a president by his age, only by his works.' And ever since he told me that, I stopped worrying.
No woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. It looks so calculating.
At twenty years of age the will reigns at thirty, the wit and at forty, the judgment.
Age does not protect you from love. But love, to some extent, protects you from age.
Information is the oxygen of the modern age. It seeps through the walls topped by barbed wire, it wafts across the electrified borders.
Old age is just a record of one's whole life.
We prefer world law in the age of self-determination to world war in the age of mass extermination.
Each age, it is found, must write its own books or rather, each generation for the next succeeding.
Education is the best provision for old age.
The secret of staying young is to live honestly, eat slowly, and lie about your age.
Sometimes I think it would be easier to avoid old age, to die young, but then you'd never complete your life, would you? You'd never wholly know you.
I don't think of myself as a poor deprived ghetto girl who made good. I think of myself as somebody who from an early age knew I was responsible for myself, and I had to make good.
The kids are old enough now - I just want to let them be kids. I don't want to comment on them too much. They're at an age where I just want to let them be kids.
He who is of calm and happy nature will hardly feel the pressure of age, but to him who is of an opposite disposition youth and age are equally a burden.
Why should society feel responsible only for the education of children, and not for the education of all adults of every age?
I've got volumes on how not to behave. I've got more information now than a guy should have at my age.
I'm at the age where food has taken the place of sex in my life. In fact, I've just had a mirror put over my kitchen table.
Age is something that doesn't matter, unless you are a cheese.
Hesitation increases in relation to risk in equal proportion to age.
Books were my pass to personal freedom. I learned to read at age three, and soon discovered there was a whole world to conquer that went beyond our farm in Mississippi.
In our age there is no such thing as 'keeping out of politics.' All issues are political issues, and politics itself is a mass of lies, evasions, folly, hatred and schizophrenia.
I must confess, I was born at a very early age.
The secret of genius is to carry the spirit of the child into old age, which mean never losing your enthusiasm.
It is utterly false and cruelly arbitrary to put all the play and learning into childhood, all the work into middle age, and all the regrets into old age.
We aren't in an information age, we are in an entertainment age.
To me - old age is always ten years older than I am.
Age is not important unless you're a cheese.
No matter what age you are, or what your circumstances might be, you are special, and you still have something unique to offer. Your life, because of who you are, has meaning.
A woman has the age she deserves.
The older I grow the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.
Youngsters of the age of two and three are endowed with extraordinary strength. They can lift a dog twice their own weight and dump him into the bathtub.
He who has not the spirit of this age, has all the misery of it.
Instead of being presented with stereotypes by age, sex, color, class, or religion, children must have the opportunity to learn that within each range, some people are loathsome and some are delightful.
I think being able to age gracefully is a very important talent. It is too late for me.
Error is acceptable as long as we are young but one must not drag it along into old age.
Age wrinkles the body. Quitting wrinkles the soul.
I don't need you to remind me of my age. I have a bladder to do that for me.
Talk is by far the most accessible of pleasures. It costs nothing in money, it is all profit, it completes our education, founds and fosters our friendships, and can be enjoyed at any age and in almost any state of health.
Men of age object too much, consult too long, adventure too little, repent too soon, and seldom drive business home to the full period, but content themselves with a mediocrity of success.
Better pass boldly into that other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally with age.
Age merely shows what children we remain.
Each moment of a happy lover's hour is worth an age of dull and common life.
The credit of advancing science has always been due to individuals and never to the age.
Dressing up is a bore. At a certain age, you decorate yourself to attract the opposite sex, and at a certain age, I did that. But I'm past that age.
I was born at the age of twelve on an MGM lot.
A woman telling her true age is like a buyer confiding his final price to an Armenian rug dealer.
How young can you die of old age?
Legend: A lie that has attained the dignity of age.
Age does not protect you from love. But love, to some extent, protects you from age.
Every great architect is - necessarily - a great poet. He must be a great original interpreter of his time, his day, his age.
At the age of six I wanted to be a cook. At seven I wanted to be Napoleon. And my ambition has been growing steadily ever since.
Middle age is when you're sitting at home on a Saturday night and the telephone rings and you hope it isn't for you.
If youth knew if age could.
I think the biggest disease the world suffers from in this day and age is the disease of people feeling unloved. I know that I can give love for a minute, for half an hour, for a day, for a month, but I can give. I am very happy to do that, I want to do that.
The charm of history and its enigmatic lesson consist in the fact that, from age to age, nothing changes and yet everything is completely different.
Men are like wine - some turn to vinegar, but the best improve with age.
I created Punk for this day and age. Do you see Britney walking around wearing ties and singing punk? Hell no. That's what I do. I'm like a Sid Vicious for a new generation.
We are all geniuses up to the age of ten.
It is well for the world that in most of us, by the age of thirty, the character has set like plaster, and will never soften again.
Every age has its own poetry in every age the circumstances of history choose a nation, a race, a class to take up the torch by creating situations that can be expressed or transcended only through poetry.
Old age is not a matter for sorrow. It is matter for thanks if we have left our work done behind us.
I suppose when they reach a certain age some men are afraid to grow up. It seems the older the men get, the younger their new wives get.
Sex at age 90 is like trying to shoot pool with a rope.
Publishing is in a kind of Jurassic age.
Age is just a number. It's totally irrelevant unless, of course, you happen to be a bottle of wine.
Whatever you may look like, marry a man your own age - as your beauty fades, so will his eyesight.
Youth has no age.
Youth is a blunder Manhood a struggle, Old Age a regret.
To teach how to live without certainty and yet without being paralysed by hesitation is perhaps the chief thing that philosophy, in our age, can do for those who study it.
It is possible that mankind is on the threshold of a golden age but, if so, it will be necessary first to slay the dragon that guards the door, and this dragon is religion.
Nobody expects to trust his body overmuch after the age of fifty.
Old age realizes the dreams of youth: look at Dean Swift in his youth he built an asylum for the insane, in his old age he was himself an inmate.
In youth we learn in age we understand.
Believe me, that was a happy age, before the days of architects, before the days of builders.
I have the problems of, I must confess, old age.
Not just in commerce but in the world of ideas too our age is putting on a veritable clearance sale. Everything can be had so dirt cheap that one begins to wonder whether in the end anyone will want to make a bid.
Bad news isn't wine. It doesn't improve with age.
It were a real increase of human happiness, could all young men from the age of nineteen be covered under barrels, or rendered otherwise invisible and there left to follow their lawful studies and callings, till they emerged, sadder and wiser, at the age of twenty-five.
People who refuse to rest honorably on their laurels when they reach retirement age seem very admirable to me.
Not to expose your true feelings to an adult seems to be instinctive from the age of seven or eight onwards.
The heart never grows better by age I fear rather worse, always harder. A young liar will be an old one, and a young knave will only be a greater knave as he grows older.
For age is opportunity no less Than youth itself, though in another dress, And as the evening twilight fades away The sky is filled with stars, invisible by day.
Age is a case of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it don't matter.
Have regular hours for work and play make each day both useful and pleasant, and prove that you understand the worth of time by employing it well. Then youth will be delightful, old age will bring few regrets, and life will become a beautiful success.
Admiration of the proletariat, like that of dams, power stations, and aeroplanes, is part of the ideology of the machine age.
But the age of chivalry is gone. That of sophisters, economists, and calculators has succeeded and the glory of Europe is extinguished forever.
Childhood: the period of human life intermediate between the idiocy of infancy and the folly of youth - two removes from the sin of manhood and three from the remorse of age.
Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce our errors of youth for those of age.
My view is that at a younger age your optimism is more and you have more imagination etc. You have less bias.
The ruling ideas of each age have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.
In the information age, you don't teach philosophy as they did after feudalism. You perform it. If Aristotle were alive today he'd have a talk show.
Once I planned to write a book of poems entirely about the things in my pocket. But I found it would be too long and the age of the great epics is past.
The harvest of old age is the recollection and abundance of blessing previously secured.
It is the spirit of the age to believe that any fact, no matter how suspect, is superior to any imaginative exercise, no matter how true.
The arrogance of age must submit to be taught by youth.
The biggest disease this day and age is that of people feeling unloved.
Old age: the crown of life, our play's last act.
I think women should start to embrace their age. What's the alternative to getting older? You die. I can't change the day I was born. But I can take care of my skin, my body, my mind, and try to live my life and be happy.
Age is getting to know all the ways the world turns, so that if you cannot turn the world the way you want, you can at least get out of the way so you won't get run over.
Few women, I fear, have had such reason as I have to think the long sad years of youth were worth living for the sake of middle age.
One crowded hour of glorious life is worth an age without a name.
Wives are young men's mistresses, companions for middle age, and old men's nurses.
Wisdom doesn't necessarily come with age. Sometimes age just shows up all by itself.
It is a blessed thing that in every age some one has had the individuality enough and courage enough to stand by his own convictions.
And in my own life, in my own small way, I've tried to give back to this country that has given me so much. That's why I left a job at a law firm for a career in public service, working to empower young people to volunteer in their communities. Because I believe that each of us - no matter what our age or background or walk of life - each of us has something to contribute to the life of this nation.
No lying knight or lying priest ever prospered in any age, but especially not in the dark ones. Men prospered then only in following an openly declared purpose, and preaching candidly beloved and trusted creeds.
A man does not die of love or his liver or even of old age he dies of being a man.
It is with an old love as it is with old age a man lives to all the miseries, but is dead to all the pleasures.
I cried on my 18th birthday. I thought 17 was such a nice age. You're young enough to get away with things, but you're old enough, too.
We live in an age when to be young and to be indifferent can be no longer synonymous. We must prepare for the coming hour. The claims of the Future are represented by suffering millions and the Youth of a Nation are the trustees of Posterity.
Age shouldn't affect you. It's just like the size of your shoes - they don't determine how you live your life! You're either marvellous or you're boring, regardless of your age.
Rashness belongs to youth prudence to old age.
Many believe - and I believe - that I have been designated for this work by God. In spite of my old age, I do not want to give it up I work out of love for God and I put all my hope in Him.
Old age is a tyrant, who forbids, under pain of death, the pleasures of youth.
The defects of the mind, like those of the face, grow worse with age.
The enemy of society is middle class and the enemy of life is middle age.
Some say that the age of chivalry is past, that the spirit of romance is dead. The age of chivalry is never past, so long as there is a wrong left unredressed on earth.
Man has no Body distinct from his Soul for that called Body is a portion of Soul discerned by the five Senses, the chief inlets of Soul in this age.
Do you remember when you were 10 or 11 years old and you really thought your folks were the best? They were completely omniscient and you took their word for everything. And then you got older and you went through this hideous age when suddenly they were the devil, they were bullies, and they didn't know anything.
This is the patent age of new inventions for killing bodies, and for saving souls. All propagated with the best intentions.
The mind that is wise mourns less for what age takes away than what it leaves behind.
The age of chivalry is past. Bores have succeeded to dragons.
Anything you cannot relinquish when it has outlived its usefulness possesses you, and in this materialistic age a great many of us are possessed by our possessions.
Like many women my age, I am 28 years old.
Life, an age to the miserable, and a moment to the happy.
We are always the same age inside.
I am, as I've said, merely competent. But in an age of incompetence, that makes me extraordinary.
Swing voters are more appropriately known as the 'idiot voters' because they have no set of philosophical principles. By the age of fourteen, you're either a Conservative or a Liberal if you have an IQ above a toaster.
If you live to be one hundred, you've got it made. Very few people die past that age.
Old age is far more than white hair, wrinkles, the feeling that it is too late and the game finished, that the stage belongs to the rising generations. The true evil is not the weakening of the body, but the indifference of the soul.
Old age has its pleasures, which, though different, are not less than the pleasures of youth.
Old age is when the liver spots show through your gloves.
There is no absurdity so palpable but that it may be firmly planted in the human head if you only begin to inculcate it before the age of five, by constantly repeating it with an air of great solemnity.
Those who improve with age embrace the power of personal growth and personal achievement and begin to replace youth with wisdom, innocence with understanding, and lack of purpose with self-actualization.
Nearly all the powerful people of this age are unbelievers, the best of them in doubt and misery, the most in plodding hesitation, doing as well as they can, what practical work lies at hand.
What is an adult? A child blown up by age.
Intelligent life on a planet comes of age when it first works out the reason for its own existence.
I am of a healthy long lived race, and our minds improve with age.
The wisdom of age: don't stop walking.
As the age of television progresses the Reagans will be the rule, not the exception. To be perfect for television is all a President has to be these days.
Before anything else, we need a new age of Enlightenment. Our present political systems must relinquish their claims on truth, justice and freedom and have to replace them with the search for truth, justice, freedom and reason.
Age is strictly a case of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.
"Age' is the acceptance of a term of years. But maturity is the glory of years.;Martha Graham;age
270;I think we ought to raise the age at which juveniles can have a gun.;George W. Bush;age
271;In this age, which believes that there is a short cut to everything, the greatest lesson to be learned is that the most difficult way is, in the long run, the easiest.;Henry Miller;age
272;A man is a fool if he drinks before he reaches the age of 50, and a fool if he doesn't afterward.;Frank Lloyd Wright;age
273;There are few things that we so unwillingly give up, even in advanced age, as the supposition that we still have the power of ingratiating ourselves with the fair sex.;Samuel Johnson;age
274;Age imprints more wrinkles in the mind than it does on the face.;Michel de Montaigne;age
275;I was confirmed at my prep school at the age of 13.;Richard Dawkins;age
276;Love has no age, no limit and no death.;John Galsworthy;age
277;What makes old age hard to bear is not the failing of one's faculties, mental and physical, but the burden of one's memories.;W. Somerset Maugham;age
278;I have always paid income tax. I object only when it reaches a stage when I am threatened with having nothing left for my old age - which is due to start next Tuesday or Wednesday.;Noel Coward;age
279;In my youth I stressed freedom, and in my old age I stress order. I have made the great discovery that liberty is a product of order.;Will Durant;age
280;And I'm afraid, in this day and age, trust, which I count so, you know, I love loyalty. I love trust.;Elton John;age
281;My dad encouraged us to fail. Growing up, he would ask us what we failed at that week. If we didn't have something, he would be disappointed. It changed my mindset at an early age that failure is not the outcome, failure is not trying. Don't be afraid to fail.;Sara Blakely;age
282;What is the worst of woes that wait on age? What stamps the wrinkle deeper on the brow? To view each loved one blotted from life's page, And be alone on earth, as I am now.;Lord Byron;age
283;Age is a matter of feeling, not of years.;Washington Irving;age
284;A tart temper never mellows with age, and a sharp tongue is the only edged tool that grows keener with constant use.;Washington Irving;age
285;Canada has a passive-aggressive culture, with a lot of sarcasm and righteousness. That went with my weird messianic complex. The ego is a fascinating monster. I was taught from a young age that I had to serve, so that turned into me thinking I had to save the planet.;Alanis Morissette;age
286;Discrimination due to age is one of the great tragedies of modern life. The desire to work and be useful is what makes life worth living, and to be told your efforts are not needed because you are the wrong age is a crime.;Johnny Ball;age
287;An artist must be a reactionary. He has to stand out against the tenor of the age and not go flopping along.;Andre Maurois;age
288;What turns me on about the digital age, what excited me personally, is that you have closed the gap between dreaming and doing. You see, it used to be that if you wanted to make a record of a song, you needed a studio and a producer. Now, you need a laptop.;Bono;age
289;I have always felt that a woman has the right to treat the subject of her age with ambiguity until, perhaps, she passes into the realm of over ninety. Then it is better she be candid with herself and with the world.;Carl Sandburg;age
290;Nice to be here? At my age it's nice to be anywhere.;George Burns;age
291;Though the Jazz Age continued it became less and less an affair of youth. The sequel was like a children's party taken over by the elders.;F. Scott Fitzgerald;age
292;Each age has deemed the new-born year the fittest time for festal cheer.;Walter Scott;age
293;Our age knows nothing but reaction, and leaps from one extreme to another.;Reinhold Niebuhr;age
294;The philosophies of one age have become the absurdities of the next, and the foolishness of yesterday has become the wisdom of tomorrow.;William Osler;age
295;I saw no African people in the printed and illustrated Sunday school lessons. I began to suspect at this early age that someone had distorted the image of my people. My long search for the true history of African people the world over began.;John Henrik Clarke;age
296;In order to fix Social Security, we must restructure it so that we continue to provide for our Nation's seniors that are approaching retirement age, but allow for younger taxpayers to invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in private accounts.;Herman Cain;age
297;No lie ever reaches old age.;Sophocles;age
298;I wanted to be a teacher. I love children, so I wanted to deal with children. Then I wanted to be a veterinarian. But by the age of ten or eleven, when I opened my mouth and said, 'Oh, God, what's this?' I kind of knew teaching and being a veterinarian were gonna have to wait.;Whitney Houston;age
299;This is the curse of our age, even the strangest aberrations are no cure for boredom.;Stendhal;age
300;If repression has indeed been the fundamental link between power, knowledge, and sexuality since the classical age, it stands to reason that we will not be able to free ourselves from it except at a considerable cost.;Michel Foucault;age
301;But an old age serene and bright, and lovely as a Lapland night, shall lead thee to thy grave.;William Wordsworth;age
302;Litigation takes the place of sex at middle age.;Gore Vidal;age
303;The face you have at age 25 is the face God gave you, but the face you have after 50 is the face you earned.;Cindy Crawford;age
304;The hallmark of our age is the tension between aspirations and sluggish institutions.;John W. Gardner;age
305;It seems as if an age of genius must be succeeded by an age of endeavour riot and extravagance by cleanliness and hard work.;Virginia Woolf;age
306;Old age is ready to undertake tasks that youth shirked because they would take too long.;W. Somerset Maugham;age
307;A woman tells her doctor, 'I've got a bad back.' The doctor says, 'It's old age.' The woman says, 'I want a second opinion.' The doctor says: 'Okay - you're ugly as well."
I'm 36 and if I met a woman of my own age and married her, I'd also be marrying her former life, her past. It might be OK for some people - I don't want to judge it or anything - but it's not for me. It would destroy my creativity.
I believe we should encourage children to sing and play instruments from an early age.
You should not consider a man's age but his acts.
At my age flowers scare me.
I would go out with women my age, but there are no women my age.
It is not well to make great changes in old age.
Setting a good example for your children takes all the fun out of middle age.
You are 27 or 28 right? It is very tough to live at that age. When nothing is sure. I have sympathy with you.
The stars shall fade away, the sun himself Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years, But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth, Unhurt amidst the wars of elements, The wrecks of matter, and the crush of worlds.
Young men soon give, and soon forget, affronts old age is slow in both.
By all but the pathologically romantic, it is now recognized that this is not the age of the small man.
It is not the young people that degenerate they are not spoiled till those of mature age are already sunk into corruption.
To be happy, we must be true to nature and carry our age along with us.
Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young.
It is the malady of our age that the young are so busy teaching us that they have no time left to learn.
I'm at peace with myself and where I am. In the past, I was always looking to see how everybody else was doing. I wasn't competitive, I was comparative. I just wanted to be where everybody else was. Now I've gotten to an age when I am not comparing anymore.
We of Africa protest that, in this day and age, we should continue to be treated as lesser human beings than other races.
Marriage is not about age it's about finding the right person.
We have entered an age in which education is not just a luxury permitting some men an advantage over others. It has become a necessity without which a person is defenseless in this complex, industrialized society. We have truly entered the century of the educated man.
Old age is the verdict of life.
The passions grafted on wounded pride are the most inveterate they are green and vigorous in old age.
Every age can be enchanting, provided you live within it.
It is unthinkable for a Frenchman to arrive at middle age without having syphilis and the Cross of the Legion of Honor.
It is folly for an eminent man to think of escaping censure, and a weakness to be affected with it. All the illustrious persons of antiquity, and indeed of every age in the world, have passed through this fiery persecution.
There must be a day or two in a man's life when he is the precise age for something important.
It is old age, rather than death, that is to be contrasted with life. Old age is life's parody, whereas death transforms life into a destiny: in a way it preserves it by giving it the absolute dimension. Death does away with time.
I don't care about age very much.
Old age and the passage of time teach all things.
I think age is a very high price to pay for maturity.
I had used eclectic therapy and behavior therapy on myself at the age of 19 to get over my fear of public speaking and of approaching young women in public.
Children rarely want to know who their parents were before they were parents, and when age finally stirs their curiosity, there is no parent left to tell them.
Middle age occurs when you are too young to take up golf and too old to rush up to the net.
Old age: I fall asleep during the funerals of my friends.
Staid middle age loves the hurricane passions of opera.
Middle age went by while I was mourning for my lost youth.
In passing, we should note this curious mark of our own age: the only absolute allowed is the absolute insistence that there is no absolute.
It's not catastrophes, murders, deaths, diseases, that age and kill us it's the way people look and laugh, and run up the steps of omnibuses.
Not even old age knows how to love death.
It's really amazing that in the age of unbelief, as a smart man called it, there isn't even more fraud. After all, with no God, there's no one to ever call you to account, and no accounting at all if you can get away with it.
I think that a man should not live beyond the age when he begins to deteriorate, when the flame that lighted the brightest moment of his life has weakened.
Temper never mellows with age, and a sharp tongue is the only edged tool that grows keener with constant use.
It is not by the gray of the hair that one knows the age of the heart.
I think the sport of wrestling, which I became involved with at the age of 14... I competed until I was 34, kind of old for a contact sport. I coached the sport until I was 47. I think the discipline of wrestling has given me the discipline I have to write.
Another belief of mine that everyone else my age is an adult, whereas I am merely in disguise.
Age carries all things away, even the mind.
Age steals away all things, even the mind.
In fact, my courage and my bravery at a young age was the thing I was bullied for, a kind of 'Who do you think you are?'
A bad manner spoils everything, even reason and justice a good one supplies everything, gilds a No, sweetens a truth, and adds a touch of beauty to old age itself.
As technology advances, it reverses the characteristics of every situation again and again. The age of automation is going to be the age of 'do it yourself.'
The excess of our youth are checks written against our age and they are payable with interest thirty years later.
At the age when Bengali youth almost inevitably writes poetry, I was listening to European classical music.
I smoke ten to fifteen cigars a day. At my age I have to hold on to something.
I'm at the age now where just putting my cigar in its holder is a thrill.
Age becomes reality when you hear someone refer to that attractive young woman standing next to the woman in the green dress, and you find that you're the one in the green dress.
Our scientific age demands that we provide definitions, measurements, and statistics in order to be taken seriously. Yet most of the important things in life cannot be precisely defined or measured. Can we define or measure love, beauty, friendship, or decency, for example?
The nearer people approach old age the closer they return to a semblance of childhood, until the time comes for them to depart this life, again like children, neither tired of living nor aware of death.
Old age is a special problem for me because I've never been able to shed the mental image I have of myself - a lad of about 19.
People until I was 60 would always say they thought I looked younger, which I think, without flattering myself, I did, but I think I certainly have, as George Orwell says people do after a certain age, the face they deserve.
The one thing that unites all human beings, regardless of age, gender, religion or ethnic background, is that we all believe we are above-average drivers.
Why do people talk of the horrors of old age? It's great. I feel like a fine old car with the parts gradually wearing out, but I'm not complaining,... Those who find growing old terrible are people who haven't done what they wanted with their lives.
As winter strips the leaves from around us, so that we may see the distant regions they formerly concealed, so old age takes away our enjoyments only to enlarge the prospect of the coming eternity.
God employs several translators some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice.
No man was ever so completely skilled in the conduct of life, as not to receive new information from age and experience.
Interest is the spur of the people, but glory that of great souls. Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age.
Invention is the talent of youth, as judgment is of age.
I'm very pleased to be here. Let's face it, at my age I'm very pleased to be anywhere.
I must be more sensible and realize that at my age, illusions are hardly permitted and they will always destroy me.
My age and health will never allow me to realize the dream of art I've been pursuing all my life.
My husband gave me a necklace. It's fake. I requested fake. Maybe I'm paranoid, but in this day and age, I don't want something around my neck that's worth more than my head.
From as long as, literally as far back as I can remember I've liked puns, word jokes, I can literally recall looking at a comic at the age of six or seven and I remember what I enjoyed and what it was precisely and how the joke worked.
The terror of the atom age is not the violence of the new power but the speed of man's adjustment to it, the speed of his acceptance.
I was born in ancient times, at the end of the world, in a patriarchal Catholic and conservative family. No wonder that by age five I was a raging feminist - although the term had not reached Chile yet, so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me.
The information encoded in your DNA determines your unique biological characteristics, such as sex, eye color, age and Social Security number.
O love, if I regret the age when one savors you, it is not for the hour of pleasure, but for the one that follows it.
In the television age, the key distinction is between the candidate who can speak poetry and the one who can only speak prose.
Age does not matter if the matter does not age.
I'm well past the age where I'm acceptable. You get to a certain age and you are forbidden access. You're not going to get the kind of coverage that you would like in music magazines, you're not going to get played on radio and you're not going to get played on television. I have to survive on word of mouth.
Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically.
Ours is an excessively conscious age. We know so much, we feel so little.
Everybody past a certain age, regardless of how they look on the outside, pretty much constantly dreams of being able to escape from their lives.
One keeps forgetting old age up to the very brink of the grave.
In the age of the individual's liquidation, the question of individuality must be raised anew.
I ask you to pray for me, for once age has overtaken us, we find consolation only in religion.
Today more than ever we need creative minds to address the issues of the age. And one of the most urgent is this: How can humanity know so much, achieve so much, and still fail so many people so badly?
Women lie about their age men lie about their income.
A major advantage of age is learning to accept people without passing judgment.
The people who live in a golden age usually go around complaining how yellow everything looks.
There was no respect for youth when I was young, and now that I am old, there is no respect for age, I missed it coming and going.
Everyone knows that by far the happiest and universally enjoyable age of man is the first. What is there about babies which makes us hug and kiss and fondle them, so that even an enemy would give them help at that age?
Well, I'm in my 60s now. I finally look it, I think. People until I was 60 would always say they thought I looked younger, which I think, without flattering myself, I did, but I think I certainly have, as George Orwell says people do after a certain age, the face they deserve.
"Bombing Afghanistan back into the Stone Age' was quite a favourite headline for some wobbly liberals. The slogan does all the work. But an instant's thought shows that Afghanistan is being, if anything, bombed out of the Stone Age.;Christopher Hitchens;age
399;Oh, if I had been loved at the age of seventeen, what an idiot I would be today. Happiness is like smallpox: if you catch it too soon, it can completely ruin your constitution.;Gustave Flaubert;age
400;English people don't have very good diction. In France you have to pronounce very particularly and clearly, and learning French at an early age helped me enormously.;Vivien Leigh;age
401;Children also have artistic ability, and there is wisdom in there having it! The more helpless they are, the more instructive are the examples they furnish us and they must be preserved free of corruption from an early age.;Paul Klee;age
402;Of course, the ideal scenario for parenting is obviously two parents of a mature age.;Jennifer Aniston;age
403;You know what makes me feel old? When I see girls who are 20-something, or the new crop of actresses, and think, Aren't we kind of the same age?;Jennifer Aniston;age
404;I think love can happen at any age... it has no age.;Shahrukh Khan;age
405;Elizabeth Peyton, the artist known for tiny, dazzling portraits of radiant youth, is now painting tiny, dazzling portraits of radiant middle age.;Jerry Saltz;age
406;I'm inspired by people who keep on rolling, no matter their age.;Jimmy Buffett;age
407;By Time and Age full many things are taught.;Aeschylus;age
408;I was taught from a young age that I had to serve, so that turned into me thinking I had to save the planet.;Alanis Morissette;age
409;If you've got to my age, you've probably had your heart broken many times. So it's not that difficult to unpack a bit of grief from some little corner of your heart and cry over it.;Emma Thompson;age
410;My mother enjoyed old age, and because of her I've begun to enjoy parts of it too. So far I've had it good and am crumbling nicely.;Lionel Blue;age
411;We're saying no changes for Medicare for people above the age of 55. And in order to keep the promise to current seniors who've already retired and organized their lives around this program, you have to reform it for the next generation.;Paul Ryan;age
412;It's sad, actually, because my anxiety keeps me from enjoying things as much as I should at this age.;Amanda Seyfried;age
413;I felt a tremendous sadness for men who can't deal with a woman of their own age.;Michael Caine;age
414;This is the first convention of the space age - where a candidate can promise the moon and mean it.;David Brinkley;age
415;Revenge is the naked idol of the worship of a semi-barbarous age.;Percy Bysshe Shelley;age
416;I think I don't regret a single 'excess' of my responsive youth - I only regret, in my chilled age, certain occasions and possibilities I didn't embrace.;Henry James;age
417;Our Age of Anxiety is, in great part, the result of trying to do today's job with yesterday's tools and yesterday's concepts.;Marshall McLuhan;age
418;I'll tell you, there is nothing better in life than being a late bloomer. I believe that success can happen at any time and at any age.;Salma Hayek;age
419;Man arrives as a novice at each age of his life.;Nicolas Chamfort;age
420;Live your life and forget your age.;Jean Paul;age
421;I can't look in the mirror and look at fake things. I just can't. I'd rather age.;Heidi Klum;age
422;The surest sign of age is loneliness.;Annie Dillard;age
423;Learning to dislike children at an early age saves a lot of expense and aggravation later in life.;Robert Byrne;age
424;Confidence is something you're born with. I know I had loads of it even at the age of 15.;Hedy Lamarr;age
425;We accumulate our opinions at an age when our understanding is at its weakest.;Georg C. Lichtenberg;age
426;I got to experience soccer at the highest level at a young age I decided I wanted to be part of that for as long as possible.;Mia Hamm;age
427;Living in an age of advertisement, we are perpetually disillusioned. The perfect life is spread before us every day, but it changes and withers at a touch.;J. B. Priestley;age
428;Age, like distance lends a double charm.;Oliver Herford;age
429;Utility is the great idol of the age, to which all powers must do service and all talents swear allegiance.;Friedrich Schiller;age
430;Anyone who writes an autobiographical work at the age of 34 is, at best, presumptuous. It occurred to me that it was time to set the record straight.;Jessica Savitch;age
431;New needs need new techniques. And the modern artists have found new ways and new means of making their statements... the modern painter cannot express this age, the airplane, the atom bomb, the radio, in the old forms of the Renaissance or of any other past culture.;Jackson Pollock;age
432;One of the tough things about being an actor, probably the hardest thing, is getting your foot in the door, and my father handled that for me at a very early age.;Jeff Bridges;age
433;Any role that big is going to be a challenge for any actor, but for an actor of a young age, it's going to be even tougher.;Jeff Bridges;age
434;Now is the age of anxiety.;W. H. Auden;age
435;I think it's pretty crazy to say you've been typecast at the age of 20 before you've even really started getting going.;Tom Felton;age
436;At the age of four with paper hats and wooden swords we're all Generals. Only some of us never grow out of it.;Peter Ustinov;age
437;My inspiration was my mom. She's a great cook, and she still cooks, and we still banter back and forth about cooking. Growing up in a mostly Portuguese community, food was important and the family table was extremely important. At a very young age I understood that.;Emeril Lagasse;age
438;The great book for you is the book that has the most to say to you at the moment when you are reading. I do not mean the book that is most instructive, but the book that feeds your spirit. And that depends on your age, your experience, your psychological and spiritual need.;Robertson Davies;age
439;Age gives you a great sense of proportion. You can be very hard on yourself when you're younger but now I just think 'well everybody's absolutely mad and I'm doing quite well'.;Steven Morrissey;age
440;If the nineteenth century was the age of the editorial chair, ours is the century of the psychiatrist's couch.;Marshall McLuhan;age
441;American youth attributes much more importance to arriving at driver's license age than at voting age.;Marshall McLuhan;age
442;I think a child should be allowed to take his father's or mother's name at will on coming of age. Paternity is a legal fiction.;James Joyce;age
443;Old age is the most unexpected of all things that happen to a man.;Leon Trotsky;age
444;You get to a certain age where you prepare yourself for happiness. Sometimes you never remember to actually get happy.;John Mayer;age
445;Being a father at a later age is different from when I had my other two daughters when I was in my 20s and 30s. If you're in your 60s and you're with the kid every day, you're dealing with the mind of a child, so it opens up that childishness in you again.;Martin Scorsese;age
446;A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new when an age ends and when the soul of a nation long suppressed finds utterance.;Jawaharlal Nehru;age
447;There is nothing in socialism that a little age or a little money will not cure.;Will Durant;age
448;If you age with somebody, you go through so many roles - you're lovers, friends, enemies, colleagues, strangers you're brother and sister. That's what intimacy is, if you're with your soulmate.;Cate Blanchett;age
449;With age, you see people fail more. You see yourself fail more. How do you keep that fearlessness of a kid? You keep going. Luckily, I'm not afraid to make a fool of myself.;Hugh Jackman;age
450;I'm not skinny for the wrong reasons. It's not because I'm bulimic or anorexic or doing drugs. Compared to a lot of actresses my age, I'm actually overweight.;Lindsay Lohan;age
451;It seems that when you get to a certain age you almost give yourself permission to misbehave and say what you think. People allow it, with very old people.;Julie Walters;age
452;I'm not as far along as Jack Nicklaus was at this age, but I'm trying.;Tiger Woods;age
453;When superstition is allowed to perform the task of old age in dulling the human temperament, we can say goodbye to all excellence in poetry, in painting, and in music.;Denis Diderot;age
454;Peace is the one condition of survival in this nuclear age.;Adlai E. Stevenson;age
455;What could be more beautiful than a dear old lady growing wise with age? Every age can be enchanting, provided you live within it.;Brigitte Bardot;age
456;You'd think that in this age, especially in the 21st century - especially with all the technology and all the discoveries that we've made - that we would figure out how to tackle abuse.;Tori Amos;age
457;Here comes 40. I'm feeling my age and I've ordered the Ferrari. I'm going to get the whole mid-life crisis package.;Keanu Reeves;age
458;At a young age winning is not the most important thing... the important thing is to develop creative and skilled players with good confidence.;Arsene Wenger;age
459;We live in an age where the artist is forgotten. He is a researcher. I see myself that way.;David Hockney;age
460;I lived the true American dream, because I was able to pursue what I set as my goals at a very young age.;Mario Andretti;age
461;Everybody looks like clones and the only people you notice are my age. I don't notice anybody unless they look great, and every now and again they do, and they are usually 70.;Vivienne Westwood;age
462;Photography suits the temper of this age - of active bodies and minds. It is a perfect medium for one whose mind is teeming with ideas, imagery, for a prolific worker who would be slowed down by painting or sculpting, for one who sees quickly and acts decisively, accurately.;Edward Weston;age
463;I never - you know also one of the things that would save me for a man my age, it was not that easy to lose that much weight and fall down and look like something draped.;Karl Lagerfeld;age
464;I wish I'd gotten sober at a younger age.;Janice Dickinson;age
465;Middle Age is that perplexing time of life when we hear two voices calling us, one saying, 'Why not?' and the other, 'Why bother?"
Save your money. You're going to need twice as much money in your old age as you think.
If you read back in the Bible, the letter of the apostle Paul to the church of Thessalonia, he said that in the latter days before the end of the age that the Earth would be caught up in what he called the birth pangs of a new order.
There is no self-knowledge but an historical one. No one knows what he himself is who does not know his fellow men, especially the most prominent one of the community, the master's master, the genius of the age.
Middle age is when your old classmates are so grey and wrinkled and bald they don't recognize you.
In this electronic age we see ourselves being translated more and more into the form of information, moving toward the technological extension of consciousness.
You can judge your age by the amount of pain you feel when you come in contact with a new idea.
The sanitary and mechanical age we are now entering makes up for the mercy it grants to our sense of smell by the ferocity with which it assails our sense of hearing.
Middle age is when you've met so many people that every new person you meet reminds you of someone else.
There are people whose watch stops at a certain hour and who remain permanently at that age.
My justification is that most people my age spend a lot of time thinking about what they're going to do for the next five or ten years. The time they spend thinking about their life, I just spend drinking.
They that have lived a single day have lived an age.
From the age of fifteen, dogma has been the fundamental principle of my religion: I know no other religion I cannot enter into the idea of any other sort of religion religion, as a mere sentiment, is to me a dream and a mockery.
The class distinctions proper to a democratic society are not those of rank or money, still less, as is apt to happen when these are abandoned, of race, but of age.
Old age, calm, expanded, broad with the haughty breadth of the universe, old age flowing free with the delicious near-by freedom of death.
We are living in the machine age. For the first time in history the comedian has been compelled to supply himself with jokes and comedy material to compete with the machine. Whether he knows it or not, the comedian is on a treadmill to oblivion.
At a certain age it just became apparent to me that this was probably the work that I would have to do.
Genius is present in every age, but the men carrying it within them remain benumbed unless extraordinary events occur to heat up and melt the mass so that it flows forth.
Every age needs men who will redeem the time by living with a vision of the things that are to be.
I would like to see more airplay for all artists, no matter what age. I think there's a lot of money being spent toward the young guys, but a lot of the older guys are the ones who blazed the trail for those young guys.
In my old age, I'll be in L.A.
I shall not grow conservative with age.
I first learned that there were black people living in some place called other than the United States in the western hemisphere when I was a very little boy, and my father told me that when he was a boy about my age, he wanted to be an Episcopal priest, because he so admired his priest, a black man from someplace called Haiti.
Why should 20-year-olds only be considered sexy? I think we get better with age.
I saw how many people were poor and how many kids my age went to school hungry in the morning, which I don't think most of my contemporaries in racially segregated schools in the South thought very much about at the time.
When you get to my age life seems little more than one long march to and from the lavatory.
I think, if you put a camera in anyone's life and document it daily from the age of 21 to 27, there are going to be things that aren't always pretty.
Non-disclosure in the Internet Age is quickly perceived as a breach of trust. Government, corporations and each of us as individuals must recalibrate how we live and share our lives appropriate to the information now available and the expectations of others.
Where children are, there is the golden age.
Sure I played, did you think I was born at the age of 70 sitting in a dugout trying to manage guys like you?
To be free in an age like ours, one must be in a position of authority. That in itself would be enough to make me ambitious.
I came to water late. I learned to swim at the age of 20.
People are so busy dreaming the American Dream, fantasizing about what they could be or have a right to be, that they're all asleep at the switch. Consequently we are living in the Age of Human Error.
I was getting hot flashes and sweats on a regular basis. That's not normal, even for my age.
I remember at the age of five travelling on a trolley car with my mother past a group of women on a picket line at a textile plant, seeing them being viciously beaten by security people. So that kind of thing stayed with me.
Age is not all decay it is the ripening, the swelling, of the fresh life within, that withers and bursts the husk.
I knew at a young age, whether I was playing baseball or hockey or lacrosse, that my teammates were counting on me, whether it be to strike the last batter out in a baseball game or score a big goal in a hockey game.
The funniest racism is the racism between minorities. It's something you don't see dramatized, but almost every minority I know who's my age, they have these funny stories about their parents stereotyping other minorities.
It's ironic that at age 32, at probably the greatest moment of my career, with The Godfather having such an enormous success, I wasn't even aware of it, because I was somewhere else under the deadline again.
I'm asked all the time in interviews about who I am, and I know a few people my age who have a strong sense of self, but I couldn't say I know myself and sum it up and give it to you in a little package. I don't know myself at all yet.
Alexander at the head of the world never tasted the true pleasure that boys of his own age have enjoyed at the head of a school.
To separate children from others of similar age and qualifications solely because of their race generates a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be undone.
In an age of incompetence, I've been able to last in this crazy business. I actually know how to play my ax and write a song. That's my job.
In this age of media and Internet access, we are much more talkative than ever before.
Over the years Woodstock got glorified and romanticised and became the event that symbolised Utopia. It's the last page of our collective memory of the age of innocence. Then things turned ugly and would never be the same again.
Every time I see something terrible, it's like I see it at age 19. I keep a freshness that way.
I hate to mention age, but I come from an era when we weren't consumed by technology and television.
We are approaching a new age of synthesis. Knowledge cannot be merely a degree or a skill... it demands a broader vision, capabilities in critical thinking and logical deduction without which we cannot have constructive progress.
Morality comes with the sad wisdom of age, when the sense of curiosity has withered.
Every age yearns for a more beautiful world. The deeper the desperation and the depression about the confusing present, the more intense that yearning.
To be told that one can be dependent on one's parents until age 26 should strike a young person who wants to grow up as demeaning, not as something to celebrate.
Does age matter? Time doesn't matter.
I figured out it was a social thing, what women were allowed to do. At a very young age, I decided I was not going to follow women's rules.
We were really grown up for our age and it was an incredible special band.
Age is the first limitation on roles that I've ever had to encounter, and I hit that awhile ago.
I can't hit on women in public any more. I didn't decide this it just doesn't feel right at my age.
This is the first age that's ever paid much attention to the future, which is a little ironic since we may not have one.
I feel we live in the kind of culture now where you have to be very smart to navigate the right way, and I just don't have those smarts. I think with age and time it will change, but I can't obsess about it.
The secret of long life is double careers. One to about age sixty, then another for the next thirty years.
I knew at an early age I wanted to act. Acting was always easy for me. I don't believe in predestination, but I do believe that once you get where ever it is you are going, that is where you were going to be.
The age in which we live, this non-stop distraction, is making it more impossible for the young generation to ever have the curiosity or discipline... because you need to be alone to find out anything.
I can feel the 60S looming. In my profession, I've just moved along with my age. By thinking in decades, rather than whether someone's 42 or 47, you can give yourself a whole 10 years to turn yourself around in.
We all know now that people can look good for their age. It isn't so extraordinary, I don't know why people go on about it so much.
A lot of music you might listen to is pretty vapid, it doesn't always deal with our deeper issues. These are the things I'm interested in now, particularly at my age.
Life expectancy in many parts of Africa can be something around the age of thirty five to thirty eight. I mean you're very fortunate if you live to that age. In fact when I went to Uganda for the first time one of the things that occurred to me was that I saw very few elderly people.
Light and funny has a more compelling quality when you're younger. But I haven't abandoned the genre: I love falling down I love Lucille Ball. It's just that a lot of those stories revolve around problems that I can't convincingly portray at this age.
I had the good fortune to be able to right an injustice that I thought was being heaped on young people by lowering the voting age, where you had young people that were old enough to die in Vietnam but not old enough to vote for their members of Congress that sent them there.
The value of old age depends upon the person who reaches it. To some men of early performance it is useless. To others, who are late to develop, it just enables them to finish the job.
I've gotten crankier in my old age.
I've been very competitive by nature from a young age, whether it was eating a bowl of pasta faster than somebody else, or always wanting to be the first one in line.
Death comes not to the living soul, nor age to the loving heart.
I'm not busy... a woman with three children under the age of 10 wouldn't think my schedule looked so busy.
High expectations weren't nurtured in my neck of nowhere back then - children weren't fawned over from an early age as 'gifted' and groomed for a prizewinning future self-esteem was considered something you had to pick from the garden yourself.
Not by age but by capacity is wisdom acquired.
Whoever marries the spirit of this age will find himself a widower in the next.
Of middle age the best that can be said is that a middle-aged person has likely learned how to have a little fun in spite of his troubles.
Old age is always wakeful as if, the longer linked with life, the less man has to do with aught that looks like death.
What I think is amazing is not that 85% of people who get married under the age of 25 get divorced, it's that 15% of them stay together. How did they manage to pull that off? You almost can't wait too long. It's the single simplest measure to predict divorce.
I avoid talking before the youth of the age as I would dancing before them: for if one's tongue don't move in the steps of the day, and thinks to please by its old graces, it is only an object of ridicule.
I'm glad I was born when I was. My time was the golden age of variety. If I were starting out again now, maybe things would happen for me, but it certainly would not be on a variety show with 28 musicians, 12 dancers, two major guest stars, 50 costumes a week by Bob Mackie. The networks just wouldn't spend the money today.
I was taught from a young age that many people would treat me as a second-class citizen because I was African-American and because I was female.
Even from a very early age, I knew I didn't want to miss out on anything life had to offer just because it might be considered dangerous.
We live in an age where anonymity is growing in magnitude like a bomb going off.
I was a mixture of being incredibly old for my age and incredibly backwards. I was born quite old, but then I stopped growing. I lived with my mum and dad till I was 30.
The Word of fire burns today On the lips of our prophets in an evil age.
What is wrong with the Iranians in addition to the nuclear bomb? This is the only country on Earth in the 21st century that has renewed imperialistic ambitions. They really want to become the hegemon of the Middle East in an age that gave up imperialism.
I think it's quite extraordinary that people cast me as if I'm Warren Beatty: until I met my present wife, at the age of 35, you could name two girlfriends.
Craziest thing I've done for love is getting married. I think it's crazy. I think it's crazy, crazy, crazy. I'm never going to say I wouldn't do it again but I have to make sure it's love and not settling for the 'I have to do this by a certain age,' which is kind of what I did.
You never choose the way that you're raised, it's just the way that you were raised, but you do get to a certain age where you're in a position to question the expectations of you and the way that you've been formed by your surroundings.
We tried not to age, but time had its rage.
I want to age with some dignity.
This is my 20th year in the sport. I've known swimming and that's it. I don't want to swim past age 30 if I continue after this Olympics, and come back in 2016, I'll be 31. I'm looking forward to being able to see the other side of the fence.
Young man, the secret of my success is that an early age I discovered that I was not God.
I'd like to talk about free markets. Information in the computer age is the last genuine free market left on earth except those free markets where indigenous people are still surviving. And that's basically becoming limited.
I would often find myself, at the age of 21, at midnight, running down a dark street on my own with 10 men chasing me. And the fact they had cameras in their hands made that legal.
Bring a wife home to your house when you are of the right age, not far short of 30 years, nor much above this is the right time for marriage.
There are only two things a child will share willingly communicable diseases and its mother's age.
Although it is generally known, I think it's about time to announce that I was born at a very early age.
I think it's your mental attitude. So many of us start dreading age in high school and that's a waste of a lovely life. 'Oh... I'm 30, oh, I'm 40, oh, 50.' Make the most of it.
No, no, I was only funny on stage, really. I, I, think I was funny as a person toward my classmates when I was very young. You know, when I was a child, up to about the age of 12.
What goes on in Europe concerns us greatly because, if Europe comes apart, the E.U. comes apart, then you're going to have enormous impact on America, that's a very big trading partner of ours, and people own securities around the world in this day and age.
Your body actually reminds you about your age and your injuries - the body has a stronger memory than your mind.
People dance at any age.
I never had little brothers, so I was totally not used to hearing a lot of cussing at a young age! I learned what 'pull my finger' meant the hard way.
My sister and I shared a bedroom our entire lives and I believe she discovered the Beatles when she was about 11 and I'm four years younger. So from the age of 7 until 17 we had nothing but Beatles paraphernalia in our room, even those little stuffed Beatles that went on stands that are dressed as the Sgt. Pepper band.
But look, I was born in 1956, the peak year for births in US history. I think I'm very representative of many of the thought processes my generation have been through and, by and large, people of my age have had their imprint planted on the consciousness of western society for a long time.
I basically get stereotyped a lot in terms of being a girl and writing 'chick' music for teenage girls or something. I think, if anything, the press kind of, because of my gender and my age, tends to kind of relegate my work to this sort of special-interest group. It's part of the cultural dynamic, I guess.
What is amazing for a woman of my age is that I change as the world is changing-and changing very, very fast. I don't think my mother had that opportunity to change.
I've never worried about age.
To me age is a number, just a number. Who cares?
If you're extremely, painfully frightened of age, it shows.
For a man who has compared himself to Theodore Roosevelt and the nation's challenges to those of the Gilded Age, Obama put forward a tepid agenda.
I wrote a screenplay for a 'Sweet Valley High' adaptation, and it's really amazing to me how many women who are my age have responded to the idea and are excited about the movie.
Let age, not envy, draw wrinkles on thy cheeks.
Here's my Golden Rule for a tarnished age: Be fair with others, but keep after them until they're fair with you.
Children under five are the poorest age group in America, and one in four infants, toddlers and preschoolers are poor during the years of greatest brain development.
Everyone talks about age, but it's not about age. It's about work ethic. Winning never gets old.
Age is a terrible avenger. The lessons of life give you so much to work with, but by the time you've got all this great wisdom, you don't get to be young anymore.
Science cannot tell theology how to construct a doctrine of creation, but you can't construct a doctrine of creation without taking account of the age of the universe and the evolutionary character of cosmic history.
I came of age believing that, no matter what happened, I would always be able to support myself.
"Dallas' hit a chord back in the late Seventies and Eighties because it was the age of greed: here you have this unapologetic character who is mean and nasty and ruthless and does it all with an evil grin. I think people related to JR back then because we all have someone we know exactly like him. Everyone in the world knows a JR.;Larry Hagman;age
586;I've never been more in love with anyone nearly half my age than I am today. I'd get married in a minute if I weren't still married to somebody else.;Rod Stewart;age
587;At my age you don't go into fatherhood lightly.;Rod Stewart;age
588;I didn't know a time when there wasn't a war because I spent all my time from the age of two or three to eight in a coal cellar really.;David Bailey;age
589;My best friend just had a baby, and she's my age. So I'm a godmom now, which is crazy.;Kristen Stewart;age
590;I think I'm a bit less inhibited, and not thinking too much before speaking. It's not about being shameful, I'm just a bit more unabashedly myself because of this thing, and it probably started at age 15. I can be around people and say what I think without fear.;Kristen Stewart;age
591;At a certain age, death becomes familiar to you-or a loss becomes familiar-the tragedies that are more commonplace in life.;Jessica Lange;age
592;TV is sort of the only way to go for an actress my age to make a decent salary with independent films, you just can't.;Jessica Lange;age
593;Memory in youth is active and easily impressible in old age it is comparatively callous to new impressions, but still retains vividly those of earlier years.;Charlotte Bronte;age
594;At its best our age is an age of searchers and discoverers, and at its worst, an age that has domesticated despair and learned to live with it happily.;Flannery O'Connor;age
595;Study after study confirms that even when you control for variables like profession, education, hours worked, age, marital status, and children, men still are compensated substantially more - even in professions, like nursing, dominated by women. No wonder there's a gender gap.;Dee Dee Myers;age
596;I learned from a very young age that if I pursued the things that truly excited me, that they would reward in more important ways, like happiness.;Brandon Boyd;age
597;I always wanted to be a designer. I read books on fashion from the age of 12.;Alexander McQueen;age
598;When I was a little kid I used to play with guys twice my age, so, I was the last one picked, so if I picked I knew that I had to get the ball to the scorer if I wanted to stay on the court, so that was pretty much my job.;Jason Kidd;age
599;We have become a society that can't self-correct, that can't address its obvious problems, that can't pull out of its nosedive. And so to our list of disasters let us add this fourth entry: we have entered an age of folly that - for all our Facebooking and the twittling tweedle-dee-tweets of the twitterati - we can't wake up from.;Thomas Frank;age
600;The divine right of husbands, like the divine right of kings, may, it is hoped, in this enlightened age, be contested without danger.;Mary Wollstonecraft;age
601;In every age there has been a stream of popular opinion that has carried all before it, and given a family character, as it were, to the century.;Mary Wollstonecraft;age
602;Look, demanding somebody do anything in this day and age is not going to fly.;John Mayer;age
603;I was very successful from a very early age, and I want to keep it.;John Mayer;age
604;When you get to a certain age, there is no coming back.;Brian Clough;age
605;Most of the basic material a writer works with is acquired before the age of fifteen.;Willa Cather;age
606;I would always encourage people of any age not to be so quick to follow other people's truths but to search and follow your own moral code and live by your own integrity, and mostly just be brave.;Jewel;age
607;I don't believe in happy endings, but I do believe in happy travels, because ultimately, you die at a very young age, or you live long enough to watch your friends die. It's a mean thing, life.;George Clooney;age
608;Even truth needs to be clad in new garments if it is to appeal to a new age.;Georg C. Lichtenberg;age
609;You can have a spiritual awakening and discover a new side of you at any age. And best of all, love can happen at any age. Life can just start to get exciting when you're in your 40s and 50s. You have to believe that.;Salma Hayek;age
610;America doesn't reward people of my age, either in day-to-day life or for their performances.;Meryl Streep;age
611;I really think we should pass a law in every state, I don't care whether it takes the independence away from an old person or not. You shouldn't be driving a car if you're over the age of 80. Maybe even less than that.;Evel Knievel;age
612;I think I'm past the age of getting lost.;Amanda Seyfried;age
613;I conceived in art college at the age of 20, near the end of term.;Joni Mitchell;age
614;I've been screaming at the top of my lungs at my family, 'Work out! Work out! Old age is coming!"
It is not classified as a pagan religion. The so-called New Age activities and this are not called religions and therefore don't come under the prohibition of mingling church and state that we have in this country.
No sex, age, or condition is above or below the absolute necessity of modesty but without it one vastly beneath the rank of man.
People tend to become more emotionally intelligent as they age and mature.
With age, you get to a place where you don't want to knock people out. You just want to give people a hug.
Age is no barrier. It's a limitation you put on your mind.
Whoever, fleeing marriage and the sorrows that women cause, does not wish to wed comes to a deadly old age.
Age has been the perfect fire extinguisher for flaming youth.
I prefer younger men. In some ways, they are much more open to a woman being stronger and independent then some of the men my age.
You have to be desirable. And that's why so many woman of my age or even younger are pushed to Botox and plastic surgery, all the things that people say, 'Why do women do this?' Where do you go in your 50s in your career?
It is my art. I am better at it than I ever was. And I will do it as long as I can. When you reach a certain age you can slough off what is unnecessary and concentrate on what is. And why not?
I feel like a lot of the female relationships I see on TV or in movies are in some way free of the kind of jealousy and anxiety and posturing that has been such a huge part of my female friendships, which I hope lessens a little bit with age.
At my age, no one is married, no one has kids, no one has a career.
One of the many pleasures of old age is giving things up.
There's also some element of coming of age during the Reagan administration, which everybody has painted as some glorious time in America, but I remember as being a very, very dark time. There was apocalypse in the air the punk rock movement made sense.
If you explode onto the scene at a very young age, there are so many people pulling you in different directions. It takes time to recalibrate and see what's important.
Situational unawareness in the private marketplace or on the battlefield will cost you your livelihood or your life. In the Age of Obama, however, such willful ignorance is a job prerequisite. The less you know the better.
We virtually never feel our age, but thinking that we should can lead to disaster.
We grew up in a very creative environment and were exposed to the arts at a very young age, so it's not a surprise that all of us are in some form of the arts.
I want to be part of the resurgence of things that are tangible, beautiful and soulful, rather than just give in to the digital age. But when I talk to people about this they just say, 'Yeah, I know what you mean,' and stare at their mobiles.
I wanted to do two things when I was growing up, about your age. I wanted to play in the NBA, and I wanted to be a businessman after my basketball career was over, and that is what I am doing now.
The idea of regretting not doing this seemed insane to me. Sitting in the corner at a bar at age 60, saying: 'I could've been Bond. Buy me a drink.' That's the saddest place I could be. At least now at 60 I can say: 'I was Bond. Now buy me a drink.'
There's a vintage which comes with age and experience.
It's not the normal way to look at things but I experienced death at a really young age and because of that it's been part of my mental landscape that death is really very possible.
I've an enormous respect for my mother who at the age of 39 raised three children, and I grew up with my grandmother in the household. And so it was a really strong household of women - my poor brother! It was great growing up with so many generations of women.
Every age develops its own peculiar forms of pathology, which express in exaggerated form its underlying character structure.
I love my kids, and the moments I have with them, and it's kind of weird, it's such an age old cliche, but the way that my sons, the way they make me feel when I look at them, the way they say things, no one else would probably react to them, but it's a special thing for me.
There's a very small group of elite actresses who are my age, who people want to work with. It's not easy to get a good job with good actors.
A final word: I am not knowledgeable about the internet. I do not have a computer. I guess that at 74 years of age, I don't have the patience to learn.
It lies in human nature that where you experience your first laughs, you also remember the age kindly.
We tried not to age, but time had its rage.
Michelle Pfeiffer hasn't been finding a lot of work recently because she doesn't like what a woman her age is offered. That's a real double standard. You get Sean Connery, who gets older and older, still playing opposite young ladies, but it doesn't work the other way around.
Old age and treachery will always beat youth and exuberance.
My wife and I, unlike many intellectuals, spent five years working on assembly lines. We came to fully understand the criticisms of the industrial age, in which you are an appendage of a machine that sets the pace.
Even one voice can be heard loudly all over the world in this day and age.
At this age, I should be leading a quiet life.
Any new financial order for the world must tackle the three chief challenges of our age.
There are signs that the age of petroleum has passed its zenith. Adjusted for inflation, a barrel of crude oil now sells for three times its long-run average. The large western oil companies, which cartellised the industry for much of the 20th century, are now selling more oil than they find, and are thus in the throes of liquidation.
With the song 'This Christmas' I wanted to do something that was kind of different. I mean, Donny Hathaway is an amazing artist. So I wanted to bring my flavor to the song so when people over the age of 45 or 50 hear it they'll be like 'OK, he did his thing with that record.' It's like I can appeal to everybody and not just a younger demographic.
In an age when the fashion is to be in love with yourself, confessing to be in love with somebody else is an admission of unfaithfulness to one's beloved.
Rereading A.J. Liebling carries me happily back to an age when all good journalists knew they had plenty to be modest about, and were.
Reason is a crutch for age, but youth is strong enough to walk alone.
What's a man's age? He must hurry more, that's all Cram in a day, what his youth took a year to hold.
What Youth deemed crystal, Age finds out was dew.
A face to lose youth for, to occupy age With the dream of, meet death with.
I believe the true function of age is memory. I'm recording as fast as I can.
So Harry Potter came in and it is nice that I have kids of the right age. I took them to London and they walked around the set and met Harry Potter and that is thrilling.
All we can do when we think of kids today is think of more hours of school, earlier age at the computer, and curfews. Who would want to grow up in that world?
The reason for the sadness of this modern age and the men who live in it is that it looks for the truth in everything and finds it.
No, but way before that, I've been doing little dances in movies for years. Yeah, that was an amazing chance. You know, at my age to be able to do a music dance video, very unusual.
There probably aren't a lot of actors my age who tap dance.
I started auditioning when I was about 10 and I didn't get my first job until I was 12, and two years at that age is really hard.
I remember being in Hollywood at the age of 16 and marveling at the stars. The idea of being part of it never entered my mind. It was too far-fetched.
The older generation had greater respect for land than science. But we live in an age when science, more than soil, has become the provider of growth and abundance. Living just on the land creates loneliness in an age of globality.
One of my grandfathers, actually, having gone out there as a minister, decided he would better serve the people as a doctor. So at a very late age - at the age of 38 in fact - he changed course and decided to become a doctor.
I'm totally into new age and self-help books. I used to work in a bookstore and that's the section they gave me, and I got way into it. I just loved the power of positive thinking, letting yourself go.
It's the kind of clothes that mothers and daughters can wear, in terms of concept... It's not about age. It's about taste, and it's about lifestyle. I believe women of all ages can wear anything.
The reason for the slow progress of the world seems to lie in a single fact. Every man is born under the yoke, and grows up beneath the oppressions of his age.
A newspaper is lumber made malleable. It is ink made into words and pictures. It is conceived, born, grows up and dies of old age in a day.
Just as we reject racism, sexism, ageism, and heterosexism, we reject speciesism. The species of a sentient being is no more reason to deny the protection of this basic right than race, sex, age, or sexual orientation is a reason to deny membership in the human moral community to other humans.
I am a grandmother now, and that means age is creeping on, creeping on.
I love things that age well - things that don't date, that stand the test of time and that become living examples of the absolute best.
Many women my age have known the experience of giving up crucial parts of themselves to please the man they love.
American Idol transcends age, gender, ethnicity, everything.
You get to a certain age and you can't judge yourself on your dad or your parents.
I'd like to look like Madonna when I'm her age. I also look at athletes and love their bodies. I've always wanted to be muscly, not skinny. A lot of women yo-yo around, but I'm always aware if I'm getting a bit out of shape. I never look at the scales but I can just tell. It goes on my tum and bum.
I could always sing, from a really young age, but my voice was really weird. I used to make my mum turn up the radio every day in our house. She was well into music so I got that from her.
I think women get caught up too much in having a plan - 'I'm going to get married at this age I'm going to have a kid at this age' - and then they just try to find a guy who will fit into that picture. I don't want my life to be based on that.
I was always concerned with writing to my age at a particular moment. That was the way I would keep faith with the audience that supported me as I went along.
Experts tell us that 90% of all brain development occurs by the age of five. If we don't begin thinking about education in the early years, our children are at risk of falling behind by the time they start Kindergarten.
When I was seventeen, I worked as a counsellor at a co-ed sleep-away camp for eight weeks. I loved it but it could be harrowing - it was far too much responsibility for someone my age.
Music has always been my protection against the world, from a very young age. I feel safe inside of a jam.
We are the children of a technological age. We have found streamlined ways of doing much of our routine work. Printing is no longer the only way of reproducing books. Reading them, however, has not changed.
Religion is the best antidote to the individualism of the consumer age. The idea that society can do without it flies in the face of history and, now, evolutionary biology.
Religiosity turns out to be the best indicator of civic involvement: it's more accurate than education, age, income, gender or race.
The year I was born, 1956, was the peak year for babies being born, and there are more people essentially our age than anybody else. We could crush these new generations if we decided too.
Adulthood is the ever-shrinking period between childhood and old age. It is the apparent aim of modern industrial societies to reduce this period to a minimum.
I was born at the age of twelve on a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer lot.
We live in an age of instant knowledge. And there's almost a sense of entitlement to that.
It's the golden age of French cinema again but it's because Sarkozy had the guts to push through copyright law.
I started in the restaurant business at the age of 19 as a waitress. I loved the atmosphere and the camaraderie of the restaurant business. I loved not having to go to an office. I loved making people happy.
My view is pensioners don't have the one option that people of working age have. They can't really increase their income, because they are no longer able to work.
Work is transformative. It gives you a greater chance of a greater income. You can affect your life while you're of working age, so you have scope and opportunity. Pensioners do not.
I think you can't really escape any kind of spiritual education as a child, whether it's New Age or Judaism or Buddhism or whatever it is. You can't escape it, even if you completely disagree with it, you still have it as a foundation that you base things off of.
At my age the only problem is with remembering names. When I call everyone darling, it has damn all to do with passionately adoring them, but I know I'm safe calling them that. Although, of course, I adore them too.
What I really tried to do with Helen was make her show this sad side of her. She was married off at 16, was so young and living in this castle that can't leave because of how she looks, and married to a man she hates and three times her age.
I never took guitar lessons. I took classical piano lessons from the age of six when we lived in Holland. And when we moved to America, it was just the typical thing except I was really good at it so was my brother.
I never took guitar lessons. I took classical piano lessons from the age of six when we lived in Holland.
When I write about a 15-year old, I jump, I return to the days when I was that age. It's like a time machine. I can remember everything. I can feel the wind. I can smell the air. Very actually. Very vividly.
We live in an age, in an era where there is so much negativity, there is so much violence in the world, there is so much unrest and people are at war, that I wanted to promote the word love and red signifies love.
I'm 20 years old. I like to party as much as anyone my age. Going clubbing is my way of relaxing or releasing a lot of stress. I don't feel that I should have to justify that part of my life. I don't know that I'm necessarily an addict.
I am happy being able to play roles with people my age because once you do something really mature there is no turning back.
Compared to a lot of actresses my age, I'm actually overweight.
This is what I asked for, and in this day and age that's what actually goes on. But what hurts me the most is that I work just as hard as any other actress around my age, like Scarlett Johansson, but I just don't get the opportunities that they get because people are so distracted by the mess that I created in my life.
At a young age, I was interested in comic books, which was really how I learnt to read. The name Cage came from a comic book character called Power Man.
There is a certain age at which a child looks at you in all earnestness and delivers a long, pleased speech in all the true inflections of spoken English, but with not one recognizable syllable.
I can't wait to be that age and hanging out with a bunch of people hanging out all day playing golf and going to the beach, all my own age. We'd be laughing and having a good time and getting loopy on our prescription drugs. Driving golf carts around. I can't wait.
I would love a family. I'm at the age where the wish for a child gets stronger. But who knows.
I love physical kinds of comedy and getting down and dirty and doing stunts. When I was growing up, I was always getting into fights with guys and usually punching out boys my age because I was a lot bigger and tougher. So I'm naturally accustomed to putting myself into the headspace of a girl who can take care of herself.
Love, with very young people, is a heartless business. We drink at that age from thirst, or to get drunk it is only later in life that we occupy ourselves with the individuality of our wine.
Age for me is just a number.
You hit a certain age and - especially because of TV - the young cooks coming up say, 'You're a sellout, because you're doing something other than what you should be doing.' 'Top Chef' is a double-edged sword for me: There's a whole group of people who will not come to the restaurants because they assume I'm not in them anymore, all I do is TV.
Some of your teachers are actually closer in age to you than you think.
From an early age I didn't buy into the value systems of working hard in a nine-to-five job. I thought creativity, friendship and loyalty and pushing the boundaries of what was acceptable was much more interesting.
I didn't have any success in show business until I was 30 to 31 years of age.
I hate the idea that you shouldn't wear something just because you're a certain age.
I am firmly of the opinion that women who make a lot of effort to hang onto their looks in middle age (unless they are beauties, entertainers or prostitutes) are rather sad, as one should surely have something more substantial to recommend one by this time, such as kindness or cleverness.
As a precocious teen I dreamed of being Graham Greene. Well, as it turned out, I never wrote a great novel, sadly, and I never converted to Catholicism, happily, but I did do one thing he did. That is, in middle age I moved to a seaside town and got into a right barney with the local powers-that-be.
Age should not have its face lifted, but it should rather teach the world to admire wrinkles as the etchings of experience and the firm line of character.
Age is only a number, a cipher for the records. A man can't retire his experience. He must use it. Experience achieves more with less energy and time.
To me, old age is always fifteen years older than I am.
I wear clothes that most people in the Midwest would probably deem inappropriate at my age. And I rock a bikini all summer long. I know that it's not normal, but I just don't care. I live once.
I've lost touch with a lot of that boutique-type music just because of my age, and raising my son and the multiple jobs I have at this point.
There's no way to approach anything in an objective way. We're completely subjective our view of the world is completely controlled by who we are as human beings, as men or women, by our age, our history, our profession, by the state of the world.
Age is not measured by years. Nature does not equally distribute energy. Some people are born old and tired while others are going strong at seventy.
Maybe it is something to do with age, but I have become fonder of poetry than of prose.
When I was younger, my whole sense of self-worth was based on whether or not I was working, which was awful. And I had a baby at 20 years old, so it wasn't just about me. At around the age of 30 there was a stretch where I wasn't working - certainly not on anything I liked, anyway - and I started to do other things.
I grew up on the golden age of children's TV.
I do wish I could tell you my age but it's impossible. It keeps changing all the time.
Pretend to be dumb, that's the only way to reach old age.
The excitement of learning separates youth from old age. As long as you're learning you're not old.
The history of my life must begin by the earliest circumstance which my memory can evoke it will therefore commence when I had attained the age of eight years and four months.
We are in an electronic technology age now and it's about time we put away the old stuff.
At the age of 20 I bought a used Fiat 127. This was the only one I could afford!
At my age, I don't think anyone is untouched by cancer.
We try, we fail, we posture, we aspire, we pontificate - and then we age, shrink, die, and vanish.
My habit would have been to veer towards the dark - to prove I was something edgy, or maybe to prove that I was cognisant of the dark side. Now, with age and confidence, I can say, yeah, that's true, but I am cognisant of the fact that people can do things well. And can be more loving than you expect.
It is not possible to live in this age if you don't have a sense of many contradictory forces.
I'm very accepting with my age. It's like notches on your belt: experience, wisdom, and a different kind of beauty. There comes a day when you've become comfortable in your skin.
You need some insecurity if you're an actor. It keeps the pot boiling. I haven't yet started to think about retiring. I was shocked when I heard about Paul Newman retiring at age 82. Most actors just fade away like old soldiers.
It's hard for women at my age in Hollywood, but I'm not discouraged.
We're still living with the old paradigm of age as an arch. That's the old metaphor: You're born, you peak at midlife and decline into decrepitude.
We can no longer waste time and money. Every day, more than 2,000 girls in America, age 15-19, give birth - in the wealthiest, most educated nation in the world! Neither you nor I should accept this statistic.
The reality is sobering: in the United States one in three girls will become pregnant before age 20, totaling more than 750,000 girls per year.
I am hoping for peaceful transition into a new age. Obama has already played a great role in initiating us into that vision. If he were to be harmed in any way, it would spawn the birth of a million Obamas.
I definitely don't look my age. So I actively look for roles that will help people change their perception of me.
The age thing really bugs me. Do people have more of a right to not like what I say because I'm 19?
There are a lot of downsides to being male. We age faster and die younger. But give us this: we're lifetime baby-making machines. Women's reproductive abilities start to wane when they're as young as 35. Men? We're good to go pretty much till we're dead.
Older fatherhood isn't all bad: testosterone rates drop about 1% per year as men age, making them less reactive and more patient, and a professionally established middle-aged man is likely to have more time and money to devote to his kids than a twenty-something who's just getting started.
Credit or debit cards, for starters, are nothing short of shoppers' Novocain. Even in the age of digital purchases and virtual money, we still attach a special value to dirty paper with pictures of presidents on it. Handing some of that to a cashier simply hurts more than handing over a little sliver of plastic.
When it comes to raising civilized kids there are no hard rules, but there are two things on which most parents agree: Boys are generally wilder than girls, and adolescents are wilder than kids of any other age. If you've got an adolescent boy, you're in the sweet spot for trouble.
It seems to me there is a change in what audiences want to see. I can only hope that's correct, because there's an awful lot of people of my age around now and we outnumber the others.
A truly great book should be read in youth, again in maturity and once more in old age, as a fine building should be seen by morning light, at noon and by moonlight.
In Hollywood, you play a mom, and the next thing you know, you're on 'The Golden Girls.' They age you so fast.
A great age of literature is perhaps always a great age of translations.
I can't get my knickers in a twist about my age and ageing in an industry that caters to the ids of 14-year-olds.
I was living on the wrong side of the tracks in Evanston, Illinois, in a home for boys. We had these Jackson 5 records. I really related to their voices - they were about my age, but they were doing it.
By age seven, I used to comb my hair for performances, just pull my hair up into a bun. Granted, it wasn't a very intricate hairstyle. Still, to be that responsible and disciplined at age seven is unusual.
It begins and ends with money. It's absurd in this day and age when we need so much money for education, health, for people, that a $100 million dollars can be spent on a film. It's obscene.
I am at that age when you panic at the slightest thing.
Being gay and being a woman has one big thing in common, which is that we both become invisible after the age of 42. Who wants a gay 50-year-old? No one, let me tell you.
I began to speak well at a very advanced age - 15, 16, 17 years old. It was psychological: the trauma of war, my family and growing up on my own. I was more or less a street kid.
We Jews have a special attachment to the Book. The study of page after page in tomes yellowing with age was obligatory.
Having come to live in this age is as though one were to have entered another country. Learn its language or risk being left out.
I don't want to look at other people my age in leather. Why would I put it on?
I believe that the fight against crime starts in the home. Parents must take responsibility for their children and show them love and guidance from an early age so they learn to respect the rights of others.
At an early age, I started my own paper route. Once I saw how you could service people and do a good job and get paid for it, I just wanted to be the best I could be in whatever I did.
Middle age: when you begin to exchange your emotions for symptoms.
Brain power improves by brain use, just as our bodily strength grows with exercise. And there is no doubt that a large proportion of the female population, from school days to late middle age, now have very complicated lives indeed.
I began to understand my sensations, to know what I wanted, at around the age of forty - but only vaguely.
I grew up on a farm in a small town where you do or say one thing and everybody knows about it. You see it happen, there's always the town gossip - 'Oh did you hear about so and so, or did you hear what went on in this household?' So I learned at a very young age just to keep my mouth shut.
If you love somebody, you love them. My parents had a 25-year age gap between them and my mum was the breadwinner, my dad the house husband. I'm a strong believer that a good relationship can work, whatever the situation.
The Border Ballads, for instance, and the Robin Hood Ballads, clearly suppose a state of society which is nothing but a very circumscribed and not very important heroic age.
By the age of 9 or 10, I knew that I had to cut my own cloth and make my own way.
When you're my age and you see a story, you better go for it pretty quickly. I'd just like to get a few more novels under my belt.
Catholics and evangelicals need to remain allied, and in solidarity, against the increasingly aggressive secularism of our age.
I don't know whether it's age or maturity, but I certainly find myself committed more and more to the looser forms of Western democracy at any price.
Losing both parents at a young age gave me a sense that you can't really control life - so you'd better live it while it's here. I stopped believing in a storybook existence a long time ago. All you can do is push in a direction and see what comes of it.
Old age is not a disease - it is strength and survivorship, triumph over all kinds of vicissitudes and disappointments, trials and illnesses.
I was a very sickly kid. While I was in the hospital at age 7, my Dad brought me a stack of comic books to keep me occupied. I was hooked.
Study until twenty-five, investigation until forty, profession until sixty, at which age I would have him retired on a double allowance.
In the digital age of 'overnight' success stories such as Facebook, the hard slog is easily overlooked.
The greatest writers of this age... are aware of the mystery of our existence.
The chief role of the universities is to prolong adolescence into middle age, at which point early retirement ensures that we lack the means or the will to enforce significant change.
My grandparents got married at a very young age, and a lot of what I think about marriage is based on their relationship. I watched them over the years and saw how they dealt with everything together, as a team.
My grandparents got married at a very young age, and a lot of what I think about marriage is based on their relationship.
At my age it is unseemly to be pessimistic.
I don't know why people are so obsessed with age anyway. I mean, 90 is the new 70 70 is the new 50 and 50 is the new 40 so the whole act-your-age thing? Only up to a point.
I don't look my age, I don't feel my age and I don't act my age. To me age is just a number.
I believe that parents need to make nutrition education a priority in their home environment. It's crucial for good health and longevity to instill in your children sound eating habits from an early age.
Most poetry in the modern age has retreated to the private sphere, turning its back on the political realm.
We incorporated new tastes and flavors into our kids' diets from a very early age, which helped to develop their palates and prevented them from becoming picky eaters. We don't buy junk food and give them options of fresh fruit, yogurt, raw almonds, or dried whole grain cereals for snack time.
Filth and old age, I'm sure you will agree, are powerful wardens upon chastity.
It has been claimed at times that our modern age of technology facilitates dictatorship.
Working on the 'Ice Age' movies, I'm really proud to be in them.
No Congress ever has seen fit to amend the Constitution to address any issue related to marriage. No Constitutional Amendment was needed to ban polygamy or bigamy, nor was a Constitutional Amendment needed to set a uniform age of majority to ban child marriages.
We're taught at such a young age that you can always be better and that you're never perfect and that you're never good enough.
The young people have MTV and rock and roll. Why would they go to read poetry? Poetry belongs to the Stone Age. It awakens in us perceptions that go back to those times.
Study is the bane of childhood, the oil of youth, the indulgence of adulthood, and a restorative in old age.
Because of my age and because there's more work on the small screen. What it's missing in quality it makes up for in quantity. From an actor's selfish point of view.
Old age is an insult. It's like being smacked.
Age puzzles me. I thought it was a quiet time. My seventies were interesting and fairly serene, but my eighties are passionate. I grow more intense as I age.
One of the great challenges of our age, in which the tools of our productivity are also the tools of our leisure, is to figure out how to make more useful those moments of procrastination when we're idling in front of our computer screens.
I happen to be interested in watching a face age. I like faces of women aging so it makes me personally quite sad. That's a beautiful gift from God. If people don't want to see that anymore then I won't be in anymore movies.
Never say never, but the thought of electively cutting oneself is beyond my grasp, and I also object to it politically. Denying the lines on our faces makes a comment about age and wisdom I don't care to make.
People pay to see movies with women looking beautiful, but I think there will be a place for me to play women looking my own age.
There's a small club of women who are willing to age.
I hope to find the roles that are age appropriate but not yearning to be younger, or parenting ad nauseam.
I try to write lyrics so that they won't age, which sort of leaves you with the big subjects like death and love and sex and violence.
In the modern media age we are rarely surprised by what we see. Whether it's on television or film or in the theatre, everything is so advertised, so trailed, that most entertainment is merely what you thought it was going to be like.
Your 40s are a major trough. About the age of 50, feelings of satisfaction begin to rebound and keep rising into your 50s, 60s and 70s, with health being a major factor.
I came back to work when my children were two months old. At that early age, they seem to have little awareness of anybody but their Raggedy Ann dolls, so it wasn't a matter of them missing me. I was missing them.
Being successful at a very young age gave me the confidence and the capability to try out other things.
About the time I turned 50, I experienced the profound biological change that often accompanies women at that age. Also, I put two kids in college and lost both of my parents, so I'm no longer somebody's daughter.
I feel more mature than most people my age.
Age does not bring you wisdom, age brings you wrinkles.
Maybe I'll be a feminist in my old age.
I feel the 21st century is another new age. Not only can we collaborate again with nature, but we have to. It's an emergency.
You can fake your age or mask it, but the passion that moves the characters has to be real.
I think that clearly it has an influence, to be coming of age during the punk rock era, to come from a difficult and sporadically violent background, to have been in and out of such chaos, I think it actually helps. But I don't know for sure.
I'd date someone younger or older age doesn't matter to me. Or looks, really - it's all about maturity.
Try to keep your soul young and quivering right up to old age.
I wanted to be a forest ranger or a coal man. At a very early age, I knew I didn't want to do what my dad did, which was work in an office.
Parenting is an impossible job at any age.
Sally Field looks amazing in general, never mind her age! She's a phenomenally talented actress and has had a career spanning so many decades.
I've had two romances since moving to Las Vegas. One was with somebody 12 years older than me, and the other was the same age, and neither worked out. I know people still think of me as one of Hugh Hefner's girlfriends, and he of course was much older than me, but that was a whole different lifestyle and a different kind of dating.
From age 16, I lived and breathed wine. I read every magazine and book about wine.
IQ is a commodity, data is a commodity. I'm far more interested in watching people interact at a restaurant with their smartphone. We can all read 'Tech Crunch,' 'Ad Age.' I would rather be living in the trenches. I would rather be going to Whole Foods in Columbus Circle to watch people shop with their smartphones.
Genius worship is the inevitable sign of an uncreative age.
I appreciate and enjoy my age.
I've been going through photos of my mother, looking back on her life and trying to put it into context. Very few people age gracefully enough to be photographed through their aging.
I am rediscovering the whole sexual dimension of life at the age of 86, really. And that also means discovering the feminine. So the whole of this dimension, which I had been seeking for a very long time, is now sort of opening itself up to me.
I think all writers of my age who are brought up on films probably by the age of 16 have seen many more films than they have read classics of literature. We can't help but be influenced by film. Film has got some great tricks that it's taught writers.
Some broad themes brought me where I am today. At a very young age, my hobby became thinking and finding connections.
I think you have to be a little bit strict. You can't be friend and their parent in a lot of situations, especially in this day and age where it's so dangerous for kids. So there's a bit of sternness, I guess, in the way I raise my kids.
In the 1970s and 1980s there was so little decent fiction for young people, but we're now in a golden age that shows no sign of fading. Philip Pullman, J. K. Rowling, Lemony Snicket are only three of the best known among a good number of equals.
I want to sell to people my own age, because that's the way I write songs.
You get to a certain age and you just want to prove that you can still rock - that you've still got it.
I always thought that I might retire from any form of sexuality by the age of 40 and just become a dignified older person.
It's only at this age that I can say the word 'art' without flinching.
Well, once you've resigned yourself to the fact that you are the more mature pop performer and you're past the age you ever thought you would do it, you might as well do it as long as you can. As long as I can still lift a microphone, then I'll do it, you know.
I hope to have one more boxing match at the age of 55. Given that demographic at the age of 55 to 65, you've got to make a statement with your life. Otherwise, you are just existing.
I think it's hard, the fact that there's a certain age that we can't have kids anymore.
While I had often said that I wanted to die in bed, what I really meant was that in my old age I wanted to be stepped on by an elephant while making love.
I basically started playing violin at the age of six. That lasted about three years because my previous teacher died and the second teacher didn't really know how to successfully get me going.
Age acquires no value save through thought and discipline.
I've had to be a man since I was 12 or 13. I had a job. And I was playing the piano for people twice my age. Handling responsibility is what makes a man a man.
Old age isn't so bad when you consider the alternative.
Up until age 40, most men are just not as mature as women. So, it makes sense that a lot of women date up in age a bit.
Think back to yourself at age 18. I know I was mighty different than the Patti I am today. As we grow up, we grow out of our haircuts, our apartments and - often times - our romantic decisions.
I was well motivated. What I wanted to do was work for myself. I had twenty two jobs before I started my business at the age of twenty three and I didn't want one more boss telling me what to do. So I was motivated simply because I didn't want a boss.
Regardless of age, regardless of position, regardless of the business we happen to be in, all of us need to understand the importance of branding. We are CEOs of our own companies: Me, Inc. To be in business today, our most important job is to be head marketer for the brand called You.
An age which is incapable of poetry is incapable of any kind of literature except the cleverness of a decadence.
I've always felt that sexuality is a really slippery thing. In this day and age, it tends to get categorized and labeled, and I think labels are for food. Canned food.
There must be a law against forcing children to perform at an early age. Children should have a wonderful childhood. They should not be given too much responsibility.
Each age tries to form its own conception of the past. Each age writes the history of the past anew with reference to the conditions uppermost in its own time.
People quit on jobs. They quit on marriages. They quit on school. There's an immediacy of this day and age that doesn't lend itself to being committed to anything.
I nearly died of double bronchial pneumonia at the age of five.
The wonderful thing about age is that your knees don't work as well, you can't run down steps quite as easily and obviously you can't lift heavy weights. But your mind doesn't feel any different.
In a secular age, an authentic miracle must purport to be a hoax, in order to gain credit in the world.
But I think it's a little different in Europe, because 40 is really the best age for a woman. That's when we hit our peak and become this ripe fruit.
My mother was 45 when she had me, so when I was in high school my parents were the same age as my friends' grandparents.
In the age of television, image becomes more important than substance.
Just call me a family man and an actor who digs his whole scene, side interests and all. Just say I feel mighty good at the ripe old age of 27.
Maybe back in the day you didn't need to be the greatest looking to be on TV and you didn't need to speak the best, but in this day and age, I think you need to be the package. You need to look the part for your sponsors, you need to be able to speak the part for the media and to big CEOs.
The culture of independent film criticism has totally gone down the drain and this seems to come with the territory of the consumer age that we are now living in.
There are only three things that can kill a farmer: lightning, rolling over in a tractor, and old age.
They say eyes clear with age.
Growing up on stage, I was introduced to makeup at a young age and I will never forget the first time I tried on a L'Oreal Paris iconic lipstick - it was instant glamour and I've been hooked ever since.
I don't mind my age.
Despite what anti-aging ads say, growing older can be better. I feel better in my skin, 100 percent. You have greater effects of gravity, but the better sense of yourself you have is something I wouldn't trade. Women who lie about their age - 'why?'
For the moment I prefer to be a beautiful woman of my age than try desperately to look 30.
It's a little silly to finally learn how to write at this age. But I long ago realized I was secretly sincere.
It's not always possible to sit down and eat at home in this day and age of fast-paced living, but if you are going to eat out, do so as a family and support all the great local places in your areas. I'll still eat at the same diner I did as a kid with my parents.
I worked hard in gymnastics since the time I was six years old until I retired at 23 years of age.
I did successfully kick tobacco at the age of 34. I smoked for like 20 years, from 14 to 34.
India saw from the beginning, and, even in her ages of reason and her age of increasing ignorance, she never lost hold of the insight, that life cannot be rightly seen in the sole light, cannot be perfectly lived in the sole power of its externalities.
Back in the 1960s, I saw Peter, Paul and Mary. I was at that age, about 14, and I was mesmerized.
For me from a pretty young age up until about 21 years old hallucinogenics had a huge place in my life.
A sense of freedom is something that, happily, comes with age and life experience.
Writers obviously have to bear witness to the harsh face of the age.
Stop living a day at a time and stop worrying about age.
Young women from a very young age are taught that life will be easier if you can just turn on the charming smile and say very little and be complacent and docile and sweet.
I started writing when I had three kids under the age of 4. I used to write every ten minutes I got to sit in front of a computer. Now, when I have more time, I function the same way: if it's writing time, I write.
I'm never overawed by a situation and I think that's because I've always looked several years older than I am. So because people were treating me like I was 40 when I was 29, I've always felt in control of a situation. People used to say, when you're 32, you'll look 32. I'm still waiting for that moment, where my age catches up with my appearance.
I am 54 and age is slowly writing itself on my face.
I envy the sensibility in Europe, appreciating beauty in women as they age. I'm going to go that way. I might dye my gray hair for a bit, but beyond that the buck stops. I'm not having any work done.
It was Julie Burchill who decreed that, beyond a certain age, a man should not be seen in a leather jacket.
As a result of the digital age and the decline of first-class mail, there is no question that the Postal Service must change and develop a new business model.
I've watched my peers get better with age and hoped that would happen with me.
I never wanted to do TV. I just did what I was trained to do through the Special Forces, and I've been doing that from a very young age.
Here's a proposal, offered only partly in jest: no resident of the United States, whether born here or abroad, should get to be a citizen until age 18, at which time each such resident has to take a test.
Second to agriculture, humbug is the biggest industry of our age.
When it comes down to it, it's about who you know, and who's a fan. It's about whether you're the right age, whether you're hot or not, whether the studio is into you or not.
Another principle is, the deepest affections of our hearts gather around some human form in which are incarnated the living thoughts and ideas of the passing age.
My acting career began at age three and my parents got me into it. I was in a McDonald's commercial.
I think that age as a number is not nearly as important as health. You can be in poor health and be pretty miserable at 40 or 50. If you're in good health, you can enjoy things into your 80s.
I just yesterday returned from a trip where I photographed a woman with two children whom I photographed first when she was the age of the older of the two children.
You live in a deranged age, more deranged that usual, because in spite of great scientific and technological advances, man has not the faintest idea of who he is or what he is doing.
To write a story about New York that only deals with people in your age and socioeconomic bracket, that feels dishonest to me. So much of New York comes from everyone bumping into each other.
My mother inspired me to treat others as I would want to be treated regardless of age, race or financial status.
And from the first time I picked up a basketball at age eight - I had a lot of difficulty when I first picked up a basketball, because I was a scrub - there were things that I liked about it.
Right up until the time I retired at age 37, I felt like there were still things that I could do better.
In 1981, at age 31, I was voted the best player in basketball, and the most valuable player in the league.
The great thing about arriving at this age is that I don't even care about my career anymore.
Almost all of your life is lived by the seat of your pants, one unexpected event crashing into another, with no pattern or reason, and then you finally reach a point, around my age, where you spend more time than ever looking back. Why did this happen? Look where that led? You see the shape of things.
I've always been intrigued by color and by interesting hair. I was one of those weird little girls doing my own hair at the age of 9. I was, like, getting weird gels and new brushes and cornrow holders. I would tweak and perm at the age of 13.
There are no college courses to build up self-esteem or high school or elementary school. If you don't get those values at a early age, nurtured in your home, you don't get them.
The freethinking of one age is the common sense of the next.
If children are not introduced to music at an early age, I believe something fundamental is actually being taken from them.
Middle age is when your broad mind and narrow waist begin to change places.
As an American, you have a right to good health care that is effective, accessible, and affordable, that serves you from infancy through old age, that allows you to go to practitioners and facilities of your choosing, and that offers a broad range of therapeutic options.
Women would be disproportionately affected by the privatization of social security. It is one of the most important safety nets for American women in old age, or in times of disability, to insure financial income for their families.
Low levels of vitamin D in the population as a whole suggest that most people need to take a vitamin D supplement. This may be especially true for seniors, as the ability to synthesize vitamin D in the skin declines with age.
Part of the reason I sort of shot out like a cannon out of Michigan and left home at such an early age is because I had to feel independent.
I think that everyone at any age should ask themselves, 'where do I want to be today, where do I want to be tomorrow, and where do I want to be in a hundred years?' We all have clear answers to those questions. We only have so much time. It's a real shame if we don't spend our lives trying to do that.
My parents got married late and they had kids late, so I never felt a social or cultural thing to be married or pregnant or a homeowner by a certain age.
I'm a pretty big dork. It's crazy. I'm one of those people who grew up with all kinds of musicals, but I was right at that age where 'Rent' was a big deal for me and for my friends.
My parents were really, really cool about supporting what I wanted to do at a really young age. I think I was about 10 when I caught the bug. They would drive me down to New York if there were auditions. When I was 12, I did this show on Broadway called 'High Society,' so we moved to New York for the run of that.
I was very sexual from a very young age.
It is a sobering thought that when Mozart was my age, he had been dead for two years.
And I'm not as young as I once was. At my age, I don't have time to be bored.
I was drafted into the Army when I was 19 and came out at age 22. Most people that I knew didn't think they'd come home alive. I didn't think I would either, so I was happy when I did.
One already feels like an anachronism, writing novels in the age of what-ever-this-is-the-age-of, but touring to promote them feels doubly anachronistic. The marketplace is showing an increasing intolerance for the time-honored practice of printing information on paper and shipping it around the country.
To own the dominant, or only, newspaper in a mid-sized American city was, for many decades, a kind of license to print money. In the Internet age, however, no one has figured out how to rescue the newspaper in the United States or abroad.
I grew up loving horses. I was relatively obsessed, starting with my rocking horse at age 2, all the way through my painting and drawing phase.
I was equally in love with singing and acting from an early age.
You can construct the character of a man and his age not only from what he does and says, but from what he fails to say and do.
I never played much golf as a kid. I caddied quite a bit but never got serious into golf until about age 15.
These days too many of us seem inclined to cover our ears, close our eyes, and blindly follow the most narrow, conservative tenets of religion or else seek comfort in the ancient traditions of New Age ritual.
There is no age, height, or weight requirement to skate. It is good exercise no matter what your age is. If you want to be competitive, most start young. But, I practice with many adult competitors.
I remember when I was 6 years old and my brother used to go seek out guys that were 13 to come over and play football against me while he was the 'permanent quarterback.' I didn't know exactly what the age difference was, but I was already playing against older guys.
Well, my son really loves wildlife. And everytime he draws a polar bear I want to tell him there probably won't any by the time... he's my age. That's kinda hard to deal with.
To be perfectly honest, I think that as I'm growing older, I'm just growing more impatient. I'll be very happy if at some point people say, 'Michael's grown wiser and softer in his old age.' But we'll have to wait and see what my next project is.
A woman my age is not supposed to be attractive or sexually appealing. I just get kinda tired of that.
Listen, in England people are already writing their memoirs at the age of 23.
I was apprehensive. I feared every time I talked about poetry, it would be filtered through the lens of race, sex, and age.
Everyone takes pause at 40. It's the age you have to assess everything in your life. It's the fictitious marker that's always coming up when you're young. The world really does look at you to kind of have it together by 40, and be successful by 40. Whatever success means.
I started out modeling at a young age and surrounded myself with different brilliant minds. I have so many people to get educated from, and I've been a sponge.
People say women shouldn't have long hair over a certain age, but I've never done what everyone says.
We tend to think of age only in time, but I don't think it has much to do with time at all there's a whole load of other things. I've met 16-year-olds who are old and 90-year-olds who are young.
It looks good when you see someone kicking at the age of 51 with no double. It's kinda cool for people to know that past 50 we can keep flexible.
The second album was emotionally exhausting and my life felt like it had become very serious at a very young age.
I never felt totally, 100%, patriotically English... I'd seen a lot of the world by an early age - sort of spent a lot of time traveling around Lebanon and I'd seen Babylon, and Damascus, and all sorts of places in the Middle East by the time I was ten. Then we'd return to Ruslip in West London... Done a fair bit of traveling really.
The first feminine feature that goes, with advancing age, is the neck.
You just never know when you're living in a golden age.
We now have an opportunity, though, to do something we didn't do in the industrial age, and that is to get a leg up on this, to bring the public in quickly, to have an informed debate.
I've spent as much as 30 grand on a watch but it's not about flaunting my wealth. I don't have many extravagances but watches are my biggest one. I must have 30 of them now. I've been collecting since the age of nine, when I won a black TAG in a karting event.
We were making the first step out of the age of chemistry and physics, and into the age of biology.
I feel like women are asked their age more than men.
Even in this day and age, if you're not married, there are people who are like, 'Awww! Don't worry, it'll happen for you someday.'
For students today, only 10 percent of children from working-class families graduate from college by the age of 24 as compared to 58 percent of upper-middle-class and wealthy families.
I have worked very hard on being aware of my childhood but moving forward and not letting it bring me down emotionally. That is a hard thing - especially when you have children of your own and you remember what happened to you at that age.
Traveling to Russia and Germany and being able to see the world at a young age was really cool for me, and I really liked that.
I vividly remember being 14. That was the age when I started to get happy: I started being a writer and stopped being a loser.
The balance of private good and general welfare is at the bottom of civilized morals but the morals of the Heroic Age are founded on individuality, and on nothing else.
I also find it interesting that a lot of people in their 30s are not married and don't have kids. There are a lot of people in this age bracket that are out there dating and trying to find love. And I never thought that at my age I would be.
The reason can only be this: heroic poetry depends on an heroic age, and an age is heroic because of what it is, not because of what it does.
The 19th century was the age of Individualism the 20th and 21st are the ages of Socialism.
We live in an age of mediocrity.
I gambled and I lost. I failed in securing my options for this choice for myself, but I succeeded in verifying the Dark Age is still with us.
I always looked really young for my age. And once I hit 23, 24 and 25, I was then allowed to play the cool 18-year-olds and stuff.
I want to be age appropriate. I don't want to be that girl you see walking away and she looks 25 and then she turns around and she looks 90.
When I was at school, I was in choirs more than anything else, from a very young age, about 9 years old. And then I started taking drum lessons.
I was always obsessed with being famous. I had Marilyn Monroe paper dolls as a child, and I was always obsessed with her. I've just been really driven in that direction, and none of my friends were. So, I don't know what put that bug in me at a young age.
All my early school reports from the age of 5 were 'Daniel must learn not to distract others.'
At the age of 11 I was about 6 ft. tall and my voice had completely broken. That caused problems. I was this gangly, spotty, very unattractive kid. I wasn't cool and I wasn't a nerd. I didn't even want to fit in with anyone.
I've always tried to do my very best, and I want to be the very best age, whatever age I am.
I never quite toed the line. I was a bit disruptive. All my early school reports from the age of 5 were 'Daniel must learn not to distract others.' And now, that's what I do for a living.
One problem with age is that patience begins to ebb.
Men of my age live in a state of continual desperation.
Starting a new retirement plan for those below a certain age is something tens of millions of Americans have already been through at work.
Anybody under the age of forty knows hip-hop, gospel and R&ampB pretty well, and it's all a part of what we consider to be 'black music.' There is a natural synergy between the three.
Well, Jeff Buckley for me is one of the greatest singers I've ever heard. And the reason why is he has an amazing range, amazing emotional power in his voice. And the music he put around it also just had this passion and this soul to it and this spirit to it that very few artists have, and he passed at a very young age.
It's getting better generally, daily, especially in TV, for women in acting and age and looks count less. As more women come into the business. Change of any sort takes a long time to happen.
I think the most exciting thing is that you expect people our age to know the music, but actually a lot of kids know the music, and if anything is left, we have left really good music, and that's the important part, not the mop-tops or whatever.
It doesn't matter what color, sex, religion, age, sexual orientation, etc., everyone should have the same freedoms and liberties.
Childhood itself is scarcely more lovely than a cheerful, kindly, sunshiny old age.
In my older age, I've learned to take things slower, because I used to be that total-fall-in-love-after-a-day guy.
You watch yourself age and it's hard to feel like a sex symbol.
I like to be alone so I can write. But focus can hurt you. I don't want to be some stress casualty in early middle age.
I'd always thought the Rats were good fun, but one of the very nice things about being of Saga age is that I can actually look back and think, When I was younger I was in a great band. It was always a collective thing.
I do think I feel it but you don't think you are cause at a certain time you are no age but you don't think you are anything. You feel the life you have lived. I feel that. It's been a long fifty years.
The crucial task of old age is balance: keeping just well enough, just brave enough, just gay and interested and starkly honest enough to remain a sentient human being.
My first job was in retail at the age of 14, and I have worked in the industry ever since.
I believed my story would be helpful to young women my daughter's age, who are still in the process of forming themselves as women, and in need of encouragement to remain true to themselves.
Old age and sickness bring out the essential characteristics of a man.
We hold that the most wonderful and splendid proof of genius is a great poem produced in a civilized age.
The age we live in is a busy age in which knowledge is rapidly advancing towards perfection.
In a spiritually sensitive culture, then, it might well be that age is something to be admired or envied.
What though youth gave love and roses, Age still leaves us friends and wine.
If there is anything I would do differently in my life, it is that I would study business more. I'm trying to teach my daughter Chloe at an early age about investing and money so she's not afraid of it.
Any young man who is unmarried at the age of twenty one is a menace to the community.
Time, in general, has always been a central obsession of mine - what it does to people, how it can constitute a plot all on its own. So naturally, I am interested in old age.
The first crocodile I ever caught was at nine years of age, and it was a rescue.
Holding on to anger is like grasping a hot coal with the intent of throwing it at someone else you are the one who gets burned.
Anybody can become angry - that is easy, but to be angry with the right person and to the right degree and at the right time and for the right purpose, and in the right way - that is not within everybody's power and is not easy.
Anger is an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.
Anger dwells only in the bosom of fools.
Bitterness is like cancer. It eats upon the host. But anger is like fire. It burns it all clean.
In a controversy the instant we feel anger we have already ceased striving for the truth, and have begun striving for ourselves.
For every minute you remain angry, you give up sixty seconds of peace of mind.
Anger and intolerance are the enemies of correct understanding.
Speak when you are angry and you will make the best speech you will ever regret.
When angry, count to four when very angry, swear.
When angry count to ten before you speak. If very angry, count to one hundred.
Man should forget his anger before he lies down to sleep.
Whatever is begun in anger ends in shame.
Usually when people are sad, they don't do anything. They just cry over their condition. But when they get angry, they bring about a change.
When anger rises, think of the consequences.
A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.
It is impossible for you to be angry and laugh at the same time. Anger and laughter are mutually exclusive and you have the power to choose either.
Anger is a killing thing: it kills the man who angers, for each rage leaves him less than he had been before - it takes something from him.
Don't get the impression that you arouse my anger. You see, one can only be angry with those he respects.
Get mad, then get over it.
He who angers you conquers you.
Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned, nor hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Beware of him that is slow to anger for when it is long coming, it is the stronger when it comes, and the longer kept. Abused patience turns to fury.
Never go to bed mad. Stay up and fight.
There are two things a person should never be angry at, what they can help, and what they cannot.
Anger and jealousy can no more bear to lose sight of their objects than love.
When you are offended at any man's fault, turn to yourself and study your own failings. Then you will forget your anger.
How much more grievous are the consequences of anger than the causes of it.
Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it.
A man that studieth revenge keeps his own wounds green.
Hatred is an affair of the heart contempt that of the head.
Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be.
Every time you get angry, you poison your own system.
Anger is a wind which blows out the lamp of the mind.
Speak when you are angry - and you'll make the best speech you'll ever regret.
Anger is a short madness.
Anger makes dull men witty, but it keeps them poor.
An angry man opens his mouth and shuts his eyes.
The deferring of anger is the best antidote to anger.
If a small thing has the power to make you angry, does that not indicate something about your size?
Never do anything when you are in a temper, for you will do everything wrong.
Always write angry letters to your enemies. Never mail them.
Let us not look back in anger, nor forward in fear, but around in awareness.
One should not lose one's temper unless one is certain of getting more and more angry to the end.
He that would be angry and sin not, must not be angry with anything but sin.
There is nothing that so much gratifies an ill tongue as when it finds an angry heart.
No man can think clearly when his fists are clenched.
Never go to bed angry, stay up and fight.
Anger is one of the sinews of the soul.
Never contend with a man who has nothing to lose.
Revenge is often like biting a dog because the dog bit you.
How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him.
Fair peace becomes men ferocious anger belongs to beasts.
Keep cool anger is not an argument.
The world needs anger. The world often continues to allow evil because it isn't angry enough.
Somebody hits me, I'm going to hit him back. Even if it does look like he hasn't eaten in a while.
A wonderful emotion to get things moving when one is stuck is anger. It was anger more than anything else that had set me off, roused me into productivity and creativity.
Experts say you should never hit your children in anger. When is a good time? When you're feeling festive?
Discussion is an exchange of knowledge an argument an exchange of ignorance.
Expressing anger is a form of public littering.
I know of no more disagreeable situation than to be left feeling generally angry without anybody in particular to be angry at.
You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.
Forgiveness is the economy of the heart... forgiveness saves the expense of anger, the cost of hatred, the waste of spirits.
In our daily life, we encounter people who are angry, deceitful, intent only on satisfying their own needs. There is so much anger, distrust, greed, and pettiness that we are losing our capacity to work well together.
Generally speaking, if a human being never shows anger, then I think something's wrong. He's not right in the brain.
Anger is the enemy of non-violence and pride is a monster that swallows it up.
In times of great stress or adversity, it's always best to keep busy, to plow your anger and your energy into something positive.
Holding on to anger, resentment and hurt only gives you tense muscles, a headache and a sore jaw from clenching your teeth. Forgiveness gives you back the laughter and the lightness in your life.
I know, to banish anger altogether from one's breast is a difficult task. It cannot be achieved through pure personal effort. It can be done only by God's grace.
We should meet abuse by forbearance. Human nature is so constituted that if we take absolutely no notice of anger or abuse, the person indulging in it will soon weary of it and stop.
Anger is never without a reason, but seldom with a good one.
Speak the truth, do not yield to anger give, if thou art asked for little by these three steps thou wilt go near the gods.
Anger is a manifestation of a deeper issue... and that, for me, is based on insecurity, self-esteem and loneliness.
I think my passion is misinterpreted as anger sometimes. And I don't think people are ready for the message that I'm delivering, and delivering with a sense of violent love.
The components of anxiety, stress, fear, and anger do not exist independently of you in the world. They simply do not exist in the physical world, even though we talk about them as if they do.
My recipe for dealing with anger and frustration: set the kitchen timer for twenty minutes, cry, rant, and rave, and at the sound of the bell, simmer down and go about business as usual.
It is wise to direct your anger towards problems - not people to focus your energies on answers - not excuses.
What I needed most was to love and to be loved, eager to be caught. Happily I wrapped those painful bonds around me and sure enough, I would be lashed with the red-hot pokers or jealousy, by suspicions and fear, by burst of anger and quarrels.
There's nothing wrong with anger provided you use it constructively.
Love implies anger. The man who is angered by nothing cares about nothing.
I have not lost faith in God. I have moments of anger and protest. Sometimes I've been closer to him for that reason.
Hurt leads to bitterness, bitterness to anger, travel too far that road and the way is lost.
The ignorant mind, with its infinite afflictions, passions, and evils, is rooted in the three poisons. Greed, anger, and delusion.
Anger cannot be dishonest.
I don't think that you can fake warmth. You can fake lust, jealousy, anger those are all quite easy. But actual, genuine warmth? I don't think you can fake it.
Genuine forgiveness does not deny anger but faces it head-on.
Anger ventilated often hurries towards forgiveness anger concealed often hardens into revenge.
Anger: an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.
Anger is the most impotent of passions. It effects nothing it goes about, and hurts the one who is possessed by it more than the one against whom it is directed.
My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.
The greatest remedy for anger is delay.
Experiencing sadness and anger can make you feel more creative, and by being creative, you can get beyond your pain or negativity.
The greatest remedy for anger is delay.
Anger is like those ruins which smash themselves on what they fall.
Guilt is anger directed at ourselves - at what we did or did not do. Resentment is anger directed at others - at what they did or did not do.
We're taught to be ashamed of confusion, anger, fear and sadness, and to me they're of equal value to happiness, excitement and inspiration.
I realized that if my thoughts immediately affect my body, I should be careful about what I think. Now if I get angry, I ask myself why I feel that way. If I can find the source of my anger, I can turn that negative energy into something positive.
I'm not as angry as I used to be. But I can get in touch with that anger pretty quickly if I feel my space is being invaded or somebody is not treating me with the respect that I think I want.
The more anger towards the past you carry in your heart, the less capable you are of loving in the present.
It isn't enough just to scream at the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations. We need our political system to start reflect this anger back into, 'How do we fix it? How do we get the economy going again?'
Hatred is inveterate anger.
There's a lot of bitterness, there's a lot of anger out there. We all have to work hard to heal those wounds.
The only justice is to follow the sincere intuition of the soul, angry or gentle. Anger is just, and pity is just, but judgement is never just.
Hatred is settled anger.
Obama and his attack dogs have nothing but hate and anger in their hearts and spew it whenever possible.
You must never be satisfied with losing. You must get angry, terribly angry, about losing. But the mark of the good loser is that he takes his anger out on himself and not his victorious opponents or on his teammates.
The fear really hits you. That's what you feel first. And then it's the anger and frustration. Part of the problem is how little we understand about the ultimate betrayal of the body when it rebels against itself.
Acting in anger and hatred throughout my life, I frequently precipitated what I feared most, the loss of friendships and the need to rely upon the very people I'd abused.
The one who cannot restrain their anger will wish undone, what their temper and irritation prompted them to do.
Be modest, humble, simple. Control your anger.
People are always angry at America. They're absolutely certain that America either caused their problems or is deliberately not fixing their problems. But the anger is always directed at America and never at Americans.
You've just got to have a sense of respect for the person you have children with. Anger doesn't help anybody. Ultimately you have to say forgiveness is important, and honoring what you had together is important. But it's easy to say and harder to do.
As far as having peace within myself, the one way I can do that is forgiving the people who have done wrong to me. It causes more stress to build up anger. Peace is more productive.
The voice of the intelligence is drowned out by the roar of fear. It is ignored by the voice of desire. It is contradicted by the voice of shame. It is biased by hate and extinguished by anger. Most of all it is silenced by ignorance.
The world in general doesn't know what to make of originality it is startled out of its comfortable habits of thought, and its first reaction is one of anger.
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't angry some days. But I really have worked hard to put a lot of the anger and disappointment in the past.
Five enemies of peace inhabit with us - avarice, ambition, envy, anger, and pride if these were to be banished, we should infallibly enjoy perpetual peace.
Lawyers are men who hire out their words and anger.
It's a joke to think that anyone is one thing. We're all such complex creatures. But if I'm going to be a poster child for anything, anger's a gorgeous emotion. It gets a bad rap, but it can make great changes happen.
Anger will never disappear so long as thoughts of resentment are cherished in the mind. Anger will disappear just as soon as thoughts of resentment are forgotten.
Do not follow vain desires for verily he who prospers is preserved from lust, greed and anger.
All those who offer an opinion on any doubtful point should first clear their minds of every sentiment of dislike, friendship, anger or pity.
I really believe that all of us have a lot of darkness in our souls. Anger, rage, fear, sadness. I don't think that's only reserved for people who have horrible upbringings. I think it really exists and is part of the human condition. I think in the course of your life you figure out ways to deal with that.
Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards, for they are subtle and quick to anger.
When I was younger, I was terrified to express anger because it would often kick-start a horrible reaction in the men in my life. So I bit my tongue. I was left to painstakingly deal with the aftermath of my avoidance later in life, in therapy or through the lyrics of my songs.
The flame of anger, bright and brief, sharpens the barb of love.
What starts the process, really, are laughs and slights and snubs when you are a kid. If your anger is deep enough and strong enough, you learn that you can change those attitudes by excellence, personal gut performance.
Although you may spend your life killing, You will not exhaust all your foes. But if you quell your own anger, your real enemy will be slain.
The opposite of anger is not calmness, its empathy.
A lot of my humor does come from anger. It's like, you're not gonna pull one over on me - which is pretty much my motto anyways.
President Obama clearly cannot run on his record. All he's offering is more of the same. That's not good. Look at the economy. It's stagnating. And so, what they're now going to try and do is bring this campaign down to little things, distractions, distortions, smear, fear, anger, frustration.
To talk about balance, it's easier to talk about what's out of balance. And I think anytime that you have any disease, and disease meaning lack of ease, lack of flow... dis-ease. So any time there's disease, you're out of balance, whether it's jealousy, anger, greed, anxiety, fear.
People are unjust to anger - it can be enlivening and a lot of fun.
Anger is never without an argument, but seldom with a good one.
All anger is not sinful, because some degree of it, and on some occasions, is inevitable. But it becomes sinful and contradicts the rule of Scripture when it is conceived upon slight and inadequate provocation, and when it continues long.
George wrote Taxman, and I played guitar on it. He wrote it in anger at finding out what the taxman did. He had never known before then what could happen to your money.
Grab the broom of anger and drive off the beast of fear.
I don't think your ability to fight has anything to do with how big you are. It's to do with how much anger is in you.
Like fragile ice anger passes away in time.
My therapist says I still haven't got in touch with my anger. Maybe one day I'm going to explode. But I'm still really happy. I know it looks like a strange and painful upbringing - all those experiences led me to the paths that I'm on now.
When someone says that I'm angry it's actually a compliment. I have not always been direct with my anger in my relationships, which is part of why I'd write about it in my songs because I had such fear around expressing anger as a woman.
I think I'm basically the same guy I always was. Maybe I've learned, through experience, to rein in some of the anger and temper they say redheads normally have.
Growing up in a particular neighborhood, growing up in a working-class family, not having much money, all of those things fire you and can give you an edge, can give you an anger.
Well, all comedy starts with anger. You get angry, and its never for a good reason, right? You know its not a good reason. And then you try and work it from there.
What influenced me was Tori Amos, who was unapologetic about expressing anger through music, and Sinead O'Connor. Those two in particular were really moving for me, and very inspiring, before I wrote 'Jagged Little Pill.'
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
My dear brothers, take note of this: Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry, for man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires.
I'm an angry person, angrier than most people would imagine, I get flashes of anger. What works for me is working out when it's useful to use that anger.
Quite a lot of our contemporary culture is actually shot through with a resentment of limits and the passage of time, anger at what we can't do, fear or even disgust at growing old.
Words can be said in bitterness and anger, and often there seems to be an element of truth in the nastiness. And words don't go away, they just echo around.
Religion can emerge in all forms of feeling: here wild anger, there the sweetest pain here consuming hatred, there the childlike smile of serene humility.
Fantastic tyrant of the amorous heart. How hard thy yoke, how cruel thy dart. Those escape your anger who refuse your sway, and those are punished most, who most obey.
I turned to music originally because of my past and needing a release or an outlet to get out anger or frustration or hurt.
Wars spring from unseen and generally insignificant causes, the first outbreak being often but an explosion of anger.
I have to say that anger is the blanket that comes around me, and that blunts and blurs my sense of proportion.
I'm fascinated by rap and by hip-hop. I think there's a lot of poetry in it. There's a lot of anger, a lot of social energy in it. And I think you'd better listen to it pretty carefully, 'cause it's important.
The bare recollection of anger kindles anger.
There was never an angry man that thought his anger unjust.
I think we all have a lot of darkness in our bellies. As an actor, the challenge of tapping into that, reaching down into that sadness or anger, is very therapeutic.
Allowing children to show their guilt, show their grief, show their anger, takes the sting out of the situation.
I think that Scottish people, like Canadians, are often misunderstood and what I like about my Scottish friends and relatives is how quickly it can go from love to anger. It's a great dynamic.
He who is incapable of feeling strong passions, of being shaken by anger, of living in every sense of the word, will never be a good actor.
Anger may repast with thee for an hour, but not repose for a night the continuance of anger is hatred, the continuance of hatred turns malice.
Yeah, to me, acting is very therapeutic. I get out a lot of anger and frustration.
I grew up looking at my father as to how to behave. In watching him I grasped so many things. His own temperament was of a calm person. He was very composed and I never saw anger in him. To me, that was fascinating.
All who consult on doubtful matters, should be void of hatred, friendship, anger, and pity.
Men make angry music and it's called rock-and-roll women include anger in their vocabulary and suddenly they're angry and militant.
I've been trying to learn how to not be so conflicted about things like my own anger. I've always had a place in my music for my anger as a way of compensating for not having a mechanism to express it in my everyday life. So I've been trying to be more true to myself, and that helps me to chill out a little bit. But politically, uh-uh. No.
Shock, confusion, fear, anger, grief, and defiance. On Sept. 11, 2001, and for the three days following the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil, President George W. Bush led with raw emotion that reflected the public's whipsawing stages of acceptance.
For me music is a vehicle to bring our pain to the surface, getting it back to that humble and tender spot where, with luck, it can lose its anger and become compassion again.
In plain terms, a child is a complicated creature who can drive you crazy. There's a cruelty to childhood, there's an anger.
Anger is an expensive luxury in which only men of certain income can indulge.
I'm not a screamer. I'm confrontational, but I don't think that translates into anger.
All through life I've harbored anger rather than expressed it at the moment.
My passion and energy get mistaken for anger.
When we can lay down our fear and anger and choose responses other than aggression, we create the conditions for bringing out the best in us humans.
Your anger is a gift.
At the time, 1980, people regarded actresses involved with production with a certain amount of fear, resentment and anger.
The great thing about celebrity culture is that they can't seem to stop themselves from displaying their ridiculous behaviour. I feel it's my job as a serious investigative journalist to witness all kinds of behaviour and then report back to the audience through the prism of my own anger and bitterness.
In general I was a good kid. It usually took a lot to make me mad. But once I reached the boiling point, I lost all rational control. Totally without thinking, when my anger was aroused, I grabbed the nearest brick, rock, or stick to bash someone. It was as if I had no conscious will in the matter.
Anger elicits anger, fear elicits fear, no matter how well meaning we may be.
Anger and hate against one we love steels our hearts, but contempt or pity leaves us silent and ashamed.
I have a right to my anger, and I don't want anybody telling me I shouldn't be, that it's not nice to be, and that something's wrong with me because I get angry.
I have some anger issues.
The intoxication of anger, like that of the grape, shows us to others, but hides us from ourselves.
The upside to anger? Getting it out of your system. You got to express your anger. Then you have room for more positive things. If I hold something in a long time, and then I speak it, it's amazing how the light shines so much brighter.
I drank for about 25 years getting over the loss of my father and I took the anger out on myself. I did a good job at beating myself up at sometimes. I don't drink anymore but my alcoholic head occasionally says different. 'Nil By Mouth' was a love letter to my father because I needed to resolve some issues in order to be able to forgive him.
Anger has a way of seeping into every other emotion and planting itself in there.
Anger is a great force. If you control it, it can be transmuted into a power which can move the whole world.
It's usually a big kind of vent of frustration or anger or sadness that puts me in the right frame of mind to write. It's such a cliche to say that artists write when they're down, but it's true for me. It's a relief to get out what's eating away at my heart or my soul or my head.
Anger tears me up inside... My own... or anyone else's.
He took over anger to intimidate subordinates, and in time anger took over him.
We are losing sight of civility in government and politics. Debate and dialogue is taking a back seat to the politics of destruction and anger and control. Dogma has replaced thoughtful discussion between people of differing views.
I don't play pyrotechnic scales. I play about frustration, patience, anger. Music is an extension of my soul.
I'm not someone who feels anger on particular issues.
Take the high road. No matter how much strife, and consternation, frustration and anger you might be confronted with - don't go to that level.
Something my mum taught me years and years and years ago, is life's just too short to carry around a great bucket-load of anger and resentment and bitterness and hatreds and all that sort of stuff.
My humour has always come from anger, but I have to make sure I don't just get angry and jump on a soapbox.
Anger is a good motivator.
And I think there's something about conservatives frankly - and the Left, when it comes to their channels of persuasion, are unpersuasive. They are, most of them are hate-filled, obscenity-clogged rants of anger and hatred.
If anger proceeds from a great cause, it turns to fury if from a small cause, it is peevishness and so is always either terrible or ridiculous.
I accrued anger from people's low opinion of me and my work, and for the work I might be capable of.
I've learned that football sometimes was an outlet. It was a way for me to release anger, release frustration.
Anger is a momentary madness, so control your passion or it will control you.
It's a very difficult thing for people to accept, seeing women act out anger on the screen. We're more accustomed to seeing men expressing rage and women crying.
He best keeps from anger who remembers that God is always looking upon him.
I did not want to put myself on the line, as an Australian playing Britain's greatest comic actor. The fans of Sellers are obsessive, possessive - and aggressive. I did not want to risk their anger - or my own reputation.
On banks, I make no apology for attacking spivs and gamblers who did more harm to the British economy than Bob Crow could achieve in his wildest Trotskyite fantasies, while paying themselves outrageous bonuses underwritten by the taxpayer. There is much public anger about banks and it is well deserved.
Whether one agrees or disagrees with the tactics of the Occupy Wall Street movement, it's easy to understand the inspiration for its anger as well as its impatience.
When you learn that a truth is a lie, anger follows.
Good satire comes from anger. It comes from a sense of injustice, that there are wrongs in the world that need to be fixed. And what better place to get that well of venom and outrage boiling than a newsroom, because you're on the front lines.
In high school I dated a white woman. She would come to visit me on the rez. And her dad, who was very racist, didn't like that at all. And he told her one time, 'You shouldn't go on the rez if you're white because Indians have a lot of anger in their heart.'
People have said I'm the candidate of anger. Well, we have a right to be angry. We lost 3 million jobs. We lost our place as the moral leader of the world.
I think anger and laughter are very close to each other, when you think about it.
All improv turns into anger. All comedy improv basically turns into anger, because that's all people know how to do when they're improvising. If you notice shows that are improvising are generally people yelling at each other.
As the plane got closer to Miami, I had this terrible feeling he was dying. Maybe he was telling me that he was going. I felt anger, panic, despair and helplessness.
Men are fair, and they have learned not to personalize anger - they can disagree with you and argue to the bone, but afterward they still consider you a nice person with whom the underlying human relationship need not be altered.
I guess because I had such a horrible life growing up, going from place to place not knowing what I was gonna do and ending up being homeless, there was a lot of pain and a lot of anger that was coming out through my guitar playing.
Wise anger is like fire from a flint: there is great ado to get it out and when it does come, it is out again immediately.
I had a lot of anger because I wasn't happy with the way I had been raised.
So I'm not worried about the emotions I carry with me, because I'm happy that I have them I think it's good for the work I do. The emotions that are not healthy are the ones you hold inside, like anger.
But one of the hardest things for me to do was to access anger. I could do it on stage. But when I did it on film it was hard for me. That probably has to do with the intimacy of film. And my own personal issues with expressing anger. So I had to learn how to do that.
To rule one's anger is well to prevent it is better.
I was able to do To Sleep with Anger, a very powerful film about African Americans, their spirituality, and the things that happened within a small community and a family.
The anger of lovers renews their love.
Life is precious and there's not a lot of room for anger.
I think I would cope like anyone copes with any tragedy. I'm sure I would be very upset for a while and then there would come a point where I would either have to stay in this place of darkness and anger, or I'd have to accept that it happened.
Everybody kind of perceives me as being angry. It's not anger, it's motivation.
There are people still in the Republican Party that I believe practice the communication of anger, of disappointment, of regret, of pain, of sorrow, of suffering. That's not what the American people want to hear.
I've purged myself of bitterness and anger and remained open to love.
Imagine a thousand more such daily intrusions in your life, every hour and minute of every day, and you can grasp the source of this paranoia, this anger that could consume me at any moment if I lost control.
There is an element of anger among women who've been raped. There's certainly a major element of humiliation. But it really does seem like a medical condition of shock and horror.
When you start suppressing feelings at an early age, it hurts you down the road. Full expression of anger and pain is very important.
I was very fortunate to play sports. All the anger in me went out. I had to do what I had to do. If you stay angry all the time, then you really don't have a good life.
I understand Tea Partyers' anger with the system, but they are in way over their heads and often racially motivated, and I can't be part of that.
I do like to write nasty songs. It's a useful weapon to have, and it's cathartic as well, because I create art out of anger, something positive out of something negative.
As a culture I see us as presently deprived of subtleties. The music is loud, the anger is elevated, sex seems lacking in sweetness and privacy.
I was a pretty angry kid, and I got into military history largely as a way to vent my own anger. As I got older it narrowed down to a more specific focus on individual violence. I'm just trying to understand where it came from.
I get in trouble when I say things like, 'I'm attracted to violence.' I was a pretty angry kid, and I got into military history largely as a way to vent my own anger. As I got older it narrowed down to a more specific focus on individual violence. I'm just trying to understand where it came from.
Anger is a transient hatred or at least very like it.
That's the conundrum of cartoon stripping, as opposed to political cartoons. When your anger is the driving force of your drawing hand, failure follows. The anger is OK, but it has to serve the interests of the heart, frankly.
Generalised anger and frustration is something that gets you in the studio, and gets you to work - though it's not necessarily evident in anything that's finished.
Most men's anger about religion is as if two men should quarrel for a lady they neither of them care for.
But on second thought, after I decreed the state of emergency, I came to the conclusion that that was impossible to achieve without bloodshed because the street protesters were full of anger and nearly out of control. This is why I thought we needed to find another way out.
I suppose there's an anger in all of us. Some hidden rage that you keep at bay.
Deep down, my mom had long suspected I was gay... Much of her anger and hurt came from her sense of betrayal that she was the last to be told.
I'm generally quite an angry person, and I like to channel my anger toward something creative.
I think there is a big difference between expressing the pain and anger that many African Americans and other people of color may feel versus language that I think now crosses the line and goes into hate.
Being told about the effects of climate change is an appeal to our reason and to our desire to bring about change. But to see that Africans are the hardest hit by climate change, even though they generate almost no greenhouse gas, is a glaring injustice, which also triggers anger and outrage over those who seek to ignore it.
I've spent a lot of time and money trying to keep my anger in control.
Fear is the only true enemy, born of ignorance and the parent of anger and hate.
The anger of a person who is strong, can always bide its time.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
I am ready to accept all accusations, allegations, anger - but I have to succeed.
Indulge not thyself in the passion of anger it is whetting a sword to wound thine own breast, or murder thy friend.
I guess lyrically they're similar because they're talking about escaping the kind of misery that likes company. 'The Last One Alive,' for me, is very simple. It's just about alienation, really, that causes anger.
What if you threw a protest and no one showed up? The lack of angst and anger and emotion is a big positive.
I did not think that I was angry, but clearly anger was reflected in my writing. I did not think that I had been affected emotionally, but it was clear from my writing that I was still very emotional about the trial some six months after it ended.
Every child senses, with all the horse sense that's in him, that any parent is angry inside when children misbehave and they dread more the anger that is rarely or never expressed openly, wondering how awful it might be.
I was never jailed. The fact is that I was arrested, but I went into a diversion programme, and by that time I'd already begun working in what was called anger management. It was a painful and awful moment.
Keep your temper. A decision made in anger is never sound.
Because society would rather we always wore a pretty face, women have been trained to cut off anger.
Unless and until Barack Obama addresses the full depth of Americans' anger with his full arsenal of policy smarts and political gifts, his presidency and, worse, our economy will be paralyzed.
The Anger Management Tour was another beautiful thing. I loved that tour.
I've always turned my anger inwards towards self-destruction.
Our task, of course, is to transmute the anger that is affliction into the anger that is determination to bring about change. I think, in fact, that one could give that as a definition of revolution.
Bosnia is under my skin. It's the place you cannot leave behind. I was obsessed by the nightmare of it all there was this sense of guilt, and an anger that has become something much deeper over these last years.
Our second phase was to develop a school curriculum that teaches tolerance, respect for differences, conflict resolution, anger management, and other attributes of peace.
The American people are smart. They've gotten sick of the predictable hyperpartisan talking points and canned anger.
I share the anger, but, ultimately, to govern this country, it takes more than anger. It takes experience. It takes positions that reflect the best values of the American people.
If either player abandon the game by quitting the table in anger, or in an otherwise offensive manner or by momentarily resigning the game or refuses to abide by the decision of the Umpire, the game must be scored against him.
After my second-to-last record, 'The Greatest', I had gone on tour for a while, and I didn't play an instrument for about five years. And I got kind of - it's not self-esteem or whatever, or anger toward myself - but disappointed in myself that I hadn't been challenging myself to learn musically.
That feeds anger, and I mean when we went and at last thank heavens got towards peace in Northern Ireland we went for justice within Northern Ireland as well as using security well, as well as a political settlement, but surely that is the lesson.
And we know there has been horrendous loss of life and suffering and we know that there is anger. Anyone who came anywhere near the general election in constituencies with a substantial Muslim population knows that.
Anger may be kindled in the noblest breasts: but in these slow droppings of an unforgiving temper never takes the shape of consistency of enduring hatred.
I've chosen my wedding ring large and heavy to continue forever. But exactly because of that all the time that Dave and I have an argument I feel it like handcuffs, and on anger time I throw it in a basket. Poor Dave, he bought me three wedding rings already!
So many women keep their anger inside and let it build until they explode and then people blow them off again.
Anger's not a good emotion.
I also had to work through the violation of my date rape, my unhealthy relationships with men, my anger toward the people involved in the scandal, and those who exploited me afterwards.
Fairest and dearest, your wrath and anger are more heavy than I can bear but learn that I cannot tell what you wish me to say without sinning against my honour too grievously.
Violence is a problem we all want to solve. I want to make sure that kids learn to deal with anger by learning how to talk with people to solve problems. Here in the United States Senate I want to make sure we have safe schools, safe neighborhoods and good things for kids to do after school!
My heart has been heavy and I have deliberated within my own conscience, knowing that my decision should not come out of my initial emotion of anger toward the President for such reckless behavior, but should be based on the facts.
Insurgents have capitalized on popular resentment and anger towards the United States and the Iraqi government to build their own political, financial and military support, and the faith of Iraqi citizens in their new government has been severely undermined.
I had a lot of anger inside me and that came out at times that were not particularly advantageous to me career-wise.
Another night, I dreamed I saw my father sweeping out the barn floor clean, and would not suffer the wheat to be brought in the barn. He appeared to me to be in anger.
Us investigators who went out into the field were faced on occasion with a lot of anger, by people saying why has it taken you five or six year to come and see me?
I like people and get along, and I'm afraid to express my anger and my rage.
I was shocked at the anger toward me.
My anger with the US was not at first, that they had used that weapon - although that anger came later.
A little anger is a good thing if it isn't on your own behalf, if it's for others deserving of your anger, your empathy.
The anger that Uncle Junior has comes from my background. My father was the son of an Italian immigrant, and I've seen the fire of the Italian temperament. It can be explosive sometimes in ways that are both funny and tragic.
The quickest way to defuse fear or insecurity or anger is usually humor. I think comics figure that out quickly, and, once you figure it out, you think, 'Hey, if I can do this and get paid, that would be kind of cool.'
I may have been the only candidate in America who failed to ride the wave of anti-establishment anger to victory.
The preparation, commitment and desire to win will be no less than the last time I drove a grand prix car in anger.
There's no anger ever in a spiritual. There's always the dream of a hope of a better day coming. That God understands the troubles that I'm experiencing.
I want to express myself to feel that what I feel is real. My joy, my pain, my anger.
It absolutely helped - to write the father in both 'Juicy' and 'Beasts,' I had to see the whole story from his point of view. All of a sudden I understood more of what my own father must be going through - the fear, the frustration, the anger... the hope that he'll leave a legacy.
Whoever incites anger has a strong insurance against indifference.
I think a certain amount of anger has been a fuel of mine, if you want - but also some sort of sadness, and plain mischief, of course.
The reason why I love people, and writing about them, is because they don't always respond with hate and anger. If they did I wouldn't have a story to tell. Who wants to know about someone who was brutalised and became brutal? I'm interested in the exceptions.
You can survive with anger, but you can't live with it forever.
The nice thing about anger is that, as an emotion, it's strong enough to unplug me from the comedian's mind for a minute and just be a frustrated member of the citizenry.
I think people should be angry at things that are worthy of anger. Injustice is outrageous and deserves outrage.
Successful prime-time television of any genre produces some kind of emotional reaction in the viewers. There are a lot of different emotions to tap into. The emotion of the reward of discovery, the feeling of righteous anger, the feelings of pathos and sadness, or sentimentality of being moved by something.
My character had been in the chair for seven years. He had gone through his anger, depression, drug and alcohol abuse. He had gone through everything, now he was up, he was happy, he was filled with his dream.
I realised one day that men are emotional cripples. We can't express ourselves emotionally, we can only do it with anger and humour. Emotional stability and expression comes from women.
My hope is that out of all the anger and seeming hostility that we hear in some of today's music will come some sort of coalition that will become politically involved.
I'm not angry, I'm not an angry person, but I do sometimes like playing with the perception of anger, as in pretending that I'm more angry than I actually am, and sometimes it works quite well.
With Stacy, it was interesting because you know he was within all this chaos, all these different lives that were so broken and so much anger and so much frustration and their skating came out of that, their different styles came out of that.
I use the music to vent, and a lot of the stuff that I am writing about or was writing about contained a lot of anger and anxiety, stress and depression, so that's how the album came out so dark.
I don't think I could play a character that I couldn't relate to somehow. I'm not unfamiliar with frustration, anger, shame, helplessness and a load of other emotions that make up our psycho-soup. I try to focus on that frustration, that sense of unfairness, and multiply it.
I'm really busted up over this and I'm very, very sorry to those people in the audience, the blacks, the Hispanics, whites - everyone that was there that took the brunt of that anger and hate and rage and how it came through.
The anger that appears to be building up between the sexes becomes more virulent with every day that passes. And far from women taking the blame... the fact is that men are invariably portrayed as the bad guys. Being a good man is like being a good Nazi.
For a long time I thought I could deal with my anger and hostility on my own. But I couldn't. I denied that it had affected me, and yet I was so frantic on the inside with other people: I needed to be constantly reassured.
The poor monkey, quietly seated on the ground, seemed to be in sore trouble at this display of anger.
It is only with burning anger that we can speak of this attack by counter-revolutionary reactionary elements against the capital of our country, against our people's democratic order and the power of the working class.
The anger in the Brigade against those who fought the Republic in the rear was sharpened by reports of weapons, even tanks, being kept from the front and hidden for treacherous purposes.
In the final analysis, the incident is seen as originating from an emotional expression of the frustration and anger of the proud people of China who had been subject to ever increasing oppression from without and decadent corruption from within.
Our humor turns our anger into a fine art.
Anger is implanted in us as sort of sting, to make us gnash with our teeth against the devil, to make us vehement against him, not to set us in array against each other.
When anger rushes unrestrained to action, like a hot steed, it stumbles on its way. The man of thought strikes deepest and strikes safely.
I think that all the anger and cynicism comes from suppressing things that we always wanted.
There is not in nature, a thing that makes man so deformed, so beastly, as doth intemperate anger.
In the heat of our campaigns, we have all become accustomed to a little anger and exaggeration. Yet, on the whole, our political process has served us well.
I don't have the feeling of being motivated by anger, revenge or frustration.
Anger is seldom without argument but seldom with a good one.
As a system of philosophy it is not like the Tower of Babel, so daring its high aim as to seek a shelter against God's anger but it is like a pyramid poised on its apex.
Anger becomes limiting, restricting. You can't see through it. While anger is there, look at that, too. But after a while, you have to look at something else.
I love each and every one of you but, like my own family, you thrill, you frustrate, you anger.
True art is characterized by an irresistible urge in the creative artist.
If you hear a voice within you say 'you cannot paint,' then by all means paint, and that voice will be silenced.
The highest art is always the most religious, and the greatest artist is always a devout person.
The aim of art is to represent not the outward appearance of things, but their inward significance.
A work of art is the unique result of a unique temperament.
The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls.
No great artist ever sees things as they really are. If he did, he would cease to be an artist.
Without tradition, art is a flock of sheep without a shepherd. Without innovation, it is a corpse.
Every artist was first an amateur.
The essence of all beautiful art, all great art, is gratitude.
Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known.
Art enables us to find ourselves and lose ourselves at the same time.
In art, the hand can never execute anything higher than the heart can imagine.
Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life.
A guilty conscience needs to confess. A work of art is a confession.
This world is but a canvas to our imagination.
An artist is not paid for his labor but for his vision.
Art is a step from what is obvious and well-known toward what is arcane and concealed.
Creativity is allowing yourself to make mistakes. Art is knowing which ones to keep.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
If you do not breathe through writing, if you do not cry out in writing, or sing in writing, then don't write, because our culture has no use for it.
Pictures must not be too picturesque.
Art is the only way to run away without leaving home.
An artist is always alone - if he is an artist. No, what the artist needs is loneliness.
We have art in order not to die of the truth.
Art is the proper task of life.
Without art, the crudeness of reality would make the world unbearable.
Drawing is the honesty of the art. There is no possibility of cheating. It is either good or bad.
Art is not a thing it is a way.
You don't take a photograph, you make it.
Vision is the art of seeing what is invisible to others.
A picture is a poem without words.
Without freedom, no art art lives only on the restraints it imposes on itself, and dies of all others.
The sculptor produces the beautiful statue by chipping away such parts of the marble block as are not needed - it is a process of elimination.
I found I could say things with color and shapes that I couldn't say any other way - things I had no words for.
Every artist dips his brush in his own soul, and paints his own nature into his pictures.
A man paints with his brains and not with his hands.
An artist is somebody who produces things that people don't need to have.
The beginning is the most important part of the work.
A good painting to me has always been like a friend. It keeps me company, comforts and inspires.
The artist is a receptacle for emotions that come from all over the place: from the sky, from the earth, from a scrap of paper, from a passing shape, from a spider's web.
An artist cannot fail it is a success to be one.
Personality is everything in art and poetry.
Painting, n.: The art of protecting flat surfaces from the weather, and exposing them to the critic.
Art is a collaboration between God and the artist, and the less the artist does the better.
Painting is easy when you don't know how, but very difficult when you do.
The essence of all art is to have pleasure in giving pleasure.
Very few people possess true artistic ability. It is therefore both unseemly and unproductive to irritate the situation by making an effort. If you have a burning, restless urge to write or paint, simply eat something sweet and the feeling will pass.
The mediator of the inexpressible is the work of art.
Some painters transform the sun into a yellow spot, others transform a yellow spot into the sun.
In art as in love, instinct is enough.
Every human is an artist. The dream of your life is to make beautiful art.
Art, like morality, consists in drawing the line somewhere.
In art the best is good enough.
Lying in bed would be an altogether perfect and supreme experience if only one had a colored pencil long enough to draw on the ceiling.
The very essence of the creative is its novelty, and hence we have no standard by which to judge it.
I'm afraid that if you look at a thing long enough, it loses all of its meaning.
Painting is just another way of keeping a diary.
Ads are the cave art of the twentieth century.
All art is but imitation of nature.
An artist never really finishes his work, he merely abandons it.
I don't want to be interesting. I want to be good.
The true work of art is but a shadow of the divine perfection.
Art is not a study of positive reality, it is the seeking for ideal truth.
Photograph: a picture painted by the sun without instruction in art.
Even a true artist does not always produce art.
An artist is a dreamer consenting to dream of the actual world.
If we could but paint with the hand what we see with the eye.
Photography takes an instant out of time, altering life by holding it still.
To say that a work of art is good, but incomprehensible to the majority of men, is the same as saying of some kind of food that it is very good but that most people can't eat it.
Painting is an infinitely minute part of my personality.
A writer should write with his eyes and a painter paint with his ears.
I cry out for order and find it only in art.
Fine art is that in which the hand, the head, and the heart of man go together.
Art consists of limitation. The most beautiful part of every picture is the frame.
The art of art, the glory of expression and the sunshine of the light of letters, is simplicity.
Not everybody trusts paintings but people believe photographs.
Every production of an artist should be the expression of an adventure of his soul.
There is nothing worse than a sharp image of a fuzzy concept.
The arts are an even better barometer of what is happening in our world than the stock market or the debates in congress.
Art is man's expression of his joy in labor.
Fashion is only the attempt to realize art in living forms and social intercourse.
A great artist is always before his time or behind it.
Artists who seek perfection in everything are those who cannot attain it in anything.
Life is painting a picture, not doing a sum.
Abstract art: a product of the untalented sold by the unprincipled to the utterly bewildered.
The artist is nothing without the gift, but the gift is nothing without work.
When I judge art, I take my painting and put it next to a God made object like a tree or flower. If it clashes, it is not art.
Treat a work of art like a prince. Let it speak to you first.
I have no fear of making changes, destroying the image, etc., because the painting has a life of its own.
Art produces ugly things which frequently become more beautiful with time. Fashion, on the other hand, produces beautiful things which always become ugly with time.
The terrifying and edible beauty of Art Nouveau architecture.
Art for art's sake is a philosophy of the well-fed.
Every good painter paints what he is.
The history of art is the history of revivals.
The business of art is to reveal the relation between man and his environment.
So vast is art, so narrow human wit.
To make us feel small in the right way is a function of art men can only make us feel small in the wrong way.
Every creator painfully experiences the chasm between his inner vision and its ultimate expression.
Trifles make perfection, and perfection is no trifle.
Art begins with resistance - at the point where resistance is overcome. No human masterpiece has ever been created without great labor.
To me, photography is the simultaneous recognition, in a fraction of a second, of the significance of an event.
Art is parasitic on life, just as criticism is parasitic on art.
The waking mind is the least serviceable in the arts.
Advertising is the greatest art form of the 20th century.
My imagination can picture no fairer happiness than to continue living for art.
Works of art, in my opinion, are the only objects in the material universe to possess internal order, and that is why, though I don't believe that only art matters, I do believe in Art for Art's sake.
What art offers is space - a certain breathing room for the spirit.
To send light into the darkness of men's hearts - such is the duty of the artist.
Pictures deface walls more often than they decorate them.
I've been called many names like perfectionist, difficult and obsessive. I think it takes obsession, takes searching for the details for any artist to be good.
Art is science made clear.
Rules and models destroy genius and art.
Immature artists imitate. Mature artists steal.
What makes photography a strange invention is that its primary raw materials are light and time.
Art is magic delivered from the lie of being truth.
All art is autobiographical. The pearl is the oyster's autobiography.
The task of art today is to bring chaos into order.
Things are beautiful if you love them.
I don't paint things. I only paint the difference between things.
The moment you cheat for the sake of beauty, you know you're an artist.
Art is the right hand of Nature. The latter has only given us being, the former has made us men.
Of all lies, art is the least untrue.
Art is either plagiarism or revolution.
Lesser artists borrow, great artists steal.
The artist belongs to his work, not the work to the artist.
A sculptor is a person who is interested in the shape of things, a poet in words, a musician by sounds.
Art is the daughter of freedom.
Every artist writes his own autobiography.
Great art picks up where nature ends.
When I work, and in my art, I hold hands with God.
The perfection of art is to conceal art.
My painting does not come from the easel.
Art, in itself, is an attempt to bring order out of chaos.
Drawing is like making an expressive gesture with the advantage of permanence.
Art is a revolt against fate. All art is a revolt against man's fate.
Art is the stored honey of the human soul, gathered on wings of misery and travail.
I don't think there's any artist of any value who doesn't doubt what they're doing.
Time extracts various values from a painter's work. When these values are exhausted the pictures are forgotten, and the more a picture has to give, the greater it is.
Wherever art appears, life disappears.
I've never really had a hobby, unless you count art, which the IRS once told me I had to declare as a hobby since I hadn't made money with it.
An artist is never ahead of his time but most people are far behind theirs.
The beauty one can find in art is one of the pitifully few real and lasting products of human endeavor.
The creative act lasts but a brief moment, a lightning instant of give-and-take, just long enough for you to level the camera and to trap the fleeting prey in your little box.
I like to pretend that my art has nothing to do with me.
I choose a block of marble and chop off whatever I don't need.
Rationalism is the enemy of art, though necessary as a basis for architecture.
The artist one day falls through a hole in the brambles, and from that moment he is following the dark rapids of an underground river which may sometimes flow so near to the surface that the laughing picnic parties are heard above.
Every other artist begins with a blank canvas, a piece of paper the photographer begins with the finished product.
To make pictures big is to make them more powerful.
My hand is the extension of the thinking process - the creative process.
That's the motivation of an artist - to seek attention of some kind.
The principles of true art is not to portray, but to evoke.
Art hurts. Art urges voyages - and it is easier to stay at home.
I think about my work every minute of the day.
Vitality is radiated from exceptional art and architecture.
By the work one knows the workman.
Art doesn't transform. It just plain forms.
My love of fine art increased - the more of it I saw, the more of it I wanted to see.
Mournful and yet grand is the destiny of the artist.
The artist's world is limitless. It can be found anywhere, far from where he lives or a few feet away. It is always on his doorstep.
Artists don't make objects. Artists make mythologies.
The principle of art is to pause, not bypass.
Art is the unceasing effort to compete with the beauty of flowers - and never succeeding.
The writer, when he is also an artist, is someone who admits what others don't dare reveal.
The works must be conceived with fire in the soul but executed with clinical coolness.
Trying to force creativity is never good.
Beauty in art is often nothing but ugliness subdued.
When I think of art I think of beauty. Beauty is the mystery of life. It is not in the eye it is in the mind. In our minds there is awareness of perfection.
Modern art is what happens when painters stop looking at girls and persuade themselves that they have a better idea.
Vision is the true creative rhythm.
No heirloom of humankind captures the past as do art and language.
The history of modern art is also the history of the progressive loss of art's audience. Art has increasingly become the concern of the artist and the bafflement of the public.
In an artwork you're always looking for artistic decisions, so an ashtray is perfect. An ashtray has got life and death.
Art is an invention of aesthetics, which in turn is an invention of philosophers... What we call art is a game.
The artist who aims at perfection in everything achieves it in nothing.
I think an artist's responsibility is more complex than people realize.
Painting is by nature a luminous language.
A painting that is well composed is half finished.
Artists themselves are not confined, but their output is.
When that shutter clicks, anything else that can be done afterward is not worth consideration.
If a building becomes architecture, then it is art.
Every time a student walks past a really urgent, expressive piece of architecture that belongs to his college, it can help reassure him that he does have that mind, does have that soul.
Light in Nature creates the movement of colors.
Art in Nature is rhythmic and has a horror of constraint.
Murals in restaurants are on a par with the food in museums.
It is a mistake for a sculptor or a painter to speak or write very often about his job. It releases tension needed for his work.
Photography is a major force in explaining man to man.
The more horrifying this world becomes, the more art becomes abstract.
Art is subject to arbitrary fashion.
When I make art, I think about its ability to connect with others, to bring them into the process.
You begin with the possibilities of the material.
To an engineer, good enough means perfect. With an artist, there's no such thing as perfect.
Culture is the arts elevated to a set of beliefs.
I think of my peace paintings as one long poem, with each painting being a single stanza.
It is art that makes life, makes interest, makes importance and I know of no substitute whatever for the force and beauty of its process.
Art ought never to be considered except in its relations with its ideal beauty.
Art is the desire of a man to express himself, to record the reactions of his personality to the world he lives in.
I paint with shapes.
I was the least Pop of all the Pop artists.
I realize that protest paintings are not exactly in vogue, but I've done many.
Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art... It has no survival value rather it is one of those things that give value to survival.
The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science.
It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge.
All the art of living lies in a fine mingling of letting go and holding on.
The art of acceptance is the art of making someone who has just done you a small favor wish that he might have done you a greater one.
Politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong remedies.
Love of beauty is taste. The creation of beauty is art.
Even in literature and art, no man who bothers about originality will ever be original: whereas if you simply try to tell the truth (without caring twopence how often it has been told before) you will, nine times out of ten, become original without ever having noticed it.
I regard the theatre as the greatest of all art forms, the most immediate way in which a human being can share with another the sense of what it is to be a human being.
Be true to yourself, help others, make each day your masterpiece, make friendship a fine art, drink deeply from good books - especially the Bible, build a shelter against a rainy day, give thanks for your blessings and pray for guidance every day.
Those who educate children well are more to be honored than they who produce them for these only gave them life, those the art of living well.
Excellence is an art won by training and habituation. We do not act rightly because we have virtue or excellence, but we rather have those because we have acted rightly. We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit.
The hours I spend with you I look upon as sort of a perfumed garden, a dim twilight, and a fountain singing to it. You and you alone make me feel that I am alive. Other men it is said have seen angels, but I have seen thee and thou art enough.
Be slow to fall into friendship but when thou art in, continue firm and constant.
Beautiful music is the art of the prophets that can calm the agitations of the soul it is one of the most magnificent and delightful presents God has given us.
It is through art, and through art only, that we can realise our perfection.
A fool's brain digests philosophy into folly, science into superstition, and art into pedantry. Hence University education.
All art is quite useless.
I wash my hands of those who imagine chattering to be knowledge, silence to be ignorance, and affection to be art.
There's no art to find the mind's construction in the face.
The art of being wise is the art of knowing what to overlook.
The art of love is largely the art of persistence.
The moment you think you understand a great work of art, it's dead for you.
If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him.
It is only an auctioneer who can equally and impartially admire all schools of art.
What we have to do, what at any rate it is our duty to do, is to revive the old art of Lying.
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.
A man's work is nothing but this slow trek to rediscover, through the detours of art, those two or three great and simple images in whose presence his heart first opened.
Speak the truth, do not yield to anger give, if thou art asked for little by these three steps thou wilt go near the gods.
A work of art is above all an adventure of the mind.
Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.
The art of acting consists in keeping people from coughing.
In general, the art of government consists of taking as much money as possible from one class of citizens to give to another.
Procrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday.
I think in art, but especially in films, people are trying to confirm their own existences.
If being an egomaniac means I believe in what I do and in my art or music, then in that respect you can call me that... I believe in what I do, and I'll say it.
Life is the art of drawing without an eraser.
Every art and every inquiry, and similarly every action and choice, is thought to aim at some good and for this reason the good has rightly been declared to be that at which all things aim.
Diplomacy is the art of saying 'Nice doggie' until you can find a rock.
Well, Art is Art, isn't it? Still, on the other hand, water is water. And east is east and west is west and if you take cranberries and stew them like applesauce they taste much more like prunes than rhubarb does. Now you tell me what you know.
Admiration for a quality or an art can be so strong that it deters us from striving to possess it.
Homer has taught all other poets the art of telling lies skillfully.
Art is not merely an imitation of the reality of nature, but in truth a metaphysical supplement to the reality of nature, placed alongside thereof for its conquest.
It is Homer who has chiefly taught other poets the art of telling lies skillfully.
For art to exist, for any sort of aesthetic activity to exist, a certain physiological precondition is indispensable: intoxication.
I do not know what the spirit of a philosopher could more wish to be than a good dancer. For the dance is his ideal, also his fine art, finally also the only kind of piety he knows, his 'divine service.'
The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing.
Were I called on to define, very briefly, the term Art, I should call it 'the reproduction of what the Senses perceive in Nature through the veil of the soul.' The mere imitation, however accurate, of what is in Nature, entitles no man to the sacred name of 'Artist.'
When art dresses in worn-out material it is most easily recognized as art.
Sleeping is no mean art: for its sake one must stay awake all day.
Art raises its head where creeds relax.
The bad gains respect through imitation, the good loses it especially in art.
Envy is the art of counting the other fellow's blessings instead of your own.
Politics is the art of controlling your environment.
Take care to sell your horse before he dies. The art of life is passing losses on.
It is the function of art to renew our perception. What we are familiar with we cease to see. The writer shakes up the familiar scene, and, as if by magic, we see a new meaning in it.
Next to the Word of God, the noble art of music is the greatest treasure in the world.
She had lost the art of conversation but not, unfortunately, the power of speech.
You use a glass mirror to see your face you use works of art to see your soul.
Art is the beautiful way of doing things. Science is the effective way of doing things. Business is the economic way of doing things.
Being good in business is the most fascinating kind of art. Making money is art and working is art and good business is the best art.
Sometimes being a friend means mastering the art of timing. There is a time for silence. A time to let go and allow people to hurl themselves into their own destiny. And a time to prepare to pick up the pieces when it's all over.
The art of government is the organisation of idolatry.
Truly fertile Music, the only kind that will move us, that we shall truly appreciate, will be a Music conducive to Dream, which banishes all reason and analysis. One must not wish first to understand and then to feel. Art does not tolerate Reason.
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
We're going to shoot one Polaroid per show. I'm going to sign this before it even develops because I know that once it develops with my signature on it, it's worth a fortune. I'll make this a work of magic warlock art.
Art is never finished, only abandoned.
The art of government is to make two-thirds of a nation pay all it possibly can pay for the benefit of the other third.
My goal is to be one with the music. I just dedicate my whole life to this art.
Advertising is the art of convincing people to spend money they don't have for something they don't need.
Love isn't an emotion or an instinct - it's an art.
Motivation is the art of getting people to do what you want them to do because they want to do it.
Democracy is the art and science of running the circus from the monkey cage.
When you create art, the world has to wait.
I started to make a study of the art of war and revolution and, whilst abroad, underwent a course in military training. If there was to be guerrilla warfare, I wanted to be able to stand and fight with my people and to share the hazards of war with them.
The art of medicine consists in amusing the patient while nature cures the disease.
Bullfighting is the only art in which the artist is in danger of death and in which the degree of brilliance in the performance is left to the fighter's honor.
To catch a husband is an art to hold him is a job.
Rhetoric is the art of ruling the minds of men.
In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
He who possesses art and science has religion he who does not possess them, needs religion.
Originality is the fine art of remembering what you hear but forgetting where you heard it.
Music is the art of the prophets and the gift of God.
You must not fight too often with one enemy, or you will teach him all your art of war.
The biggest problem with every art is by the use of appearance to create a loftier reality.
Art is a lie that makes us realize truth.
I think art is the only thing that's spiritual in the world. And I refuse to forced to believe in other people's interpretations of God. I don't think anybody should be. No one person can own the copyright to what God means.
I never called my work an 'art'. It's part of show business, the business of building entertainment.
Religion is the masterpiece of the art of animal training, for it trains people as to how they shall think.
Where the spirit does not work with the hand, there is no art.
In a decaying society, art, if it is truthful, must also reflect decay. And unless it wants to break faith with its social function, art must show the world as changeable. And help to change it.
The human foot is a masterpiece of engineering and a work of art.
It is after all the greatest art to limit and isolate oneself.
Good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them.
Art is not a handicraft, it is the transmission of feeling the artist has experienced.
Art is always and everywhere the secret confession, and at the same time the immortal movement of its time.
One does not need buildings, money, power, or status to practice the Art of Peace. Heaven is right where you are standing, and that is the place to train.
Art is not a treasure in the past or an importation from another land, but part of the present life of all living and creating peoples.
Art is making something out of nothing and selling it.
The art of being happy lies in the power of extracting happiness from common things.
All married couples should learn the art of battle as they should learn the art of making love. Good battle is objective and honest - never vicious or cruel. Good battle is healthy and constructive, and brings to a marriage the principles of equal partnership.
The web, then, or the pattern, a web at once sensuous and logical, an elegant and pregnant texture: that is style, that is the foundation of the art of literature.
Dear God! how beauty varies in nature and art. In a woman the flesh must be like marble in a statue the marble must be like flesh.
He who would do good to another must do it in Minute Particulars: general Good is the plea of the scoundrel, hypocrite, and flatterer, for Art and Science cannot exist but in minutely organized Particulars.
When thou art above measure angry, bethink thee how momentary is man's life.
Making money is art and working is art and good business is the best art.
Europe is so well gardened that it resembles a work of art, a scientific theory, a neat metaphysical system. Man has re-created Europe in his own image.
Surely all art is the result of one's having been in danger, of having gone through an experience all the way to the end, where no one can go any further.
I am a soul. I know well that what I shall render up to the grave is not myself. That which is myself will go elsewhere. Earth, thou art not my abyss!
Photography is more than a medium for factual communication of ideas. It is a creative art.
Perhaps it's good for one to suffer. Can an artist do anything if he's happy? Would he ever want to do anything? What is art, after all, but a protest against the horrible inclemency of life?
The art of war is simple enough. Find out where your enemy is. Get at him as soon as you can. Strike him as hard as you can, and keep moving on.
The finest works of art are precious, among other reasons, because they make it possible for us to know, if only imperfectly and for a little while, what it actually feels like to think subtly and feel nobly.
Art is the elimination of the unnecessary.
I think most of the people involved in any art always secretly wonder whether they are really there because they're good or there because they're lucky.
The art of life is to know how to enjoy a little and to endure very much.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
To array a man's will against his sickness is the supreme art of medicine.
There are no contests in the Art of Peace. A true warrior is invincible because he or she contests with nothing. Defeat means to defeat the mind of contention that we harbor within.
Logic: The art of thinking and reasoning in strict accordance with the limitations and incapacities of the human misunderstanding.
Freedom in art, freedom in society, this is the double goal towards which all consistent and logical minds must strive.
To my mind the old masters are not art their value is in their scarcity.
Art is not the application of a canon of beauty but what the instinct and the brain can conceive beyond any canon. When we love a woman we don't start measuring her limbs.
Art is the lie that enables us to realize the truth.
I went into the business for the money, and the art grew out of it. If people are disillusioned by that remark, I can't help it. It's the truth.
The capacity to be puzzled is the premise of all creation, be it in art or in science.
We want to answer this classical question, who am I? So I think that most of our works are for art, or whatever we do, including science or religion, tried to answer that question.
Ethics is in origin the art of recommending to others the sacrifices required for cooperation with oneself.
Dying is an art, like everything else. I do it exceptionally well. I do it so it feels like hell. I do it so it feels real. I guess you could say I've a call.
Science fiction is any idea that occurs in the head and doesn't exist yet, but soon will, and will change everything for everybody, and nothing will ever be the same again. As soon as you have an idea that changes some small part of the world you are writing science fiction. It is always the art of the possible, never the impossible.
Life doesn't imitate art, it imitates bad television.
There is no abstract art. You must always start with something. Afterward you can remove all traces of reality.
So many gods, so many creeds, so many paths that wind and wind while just the art of being kind is all the sad world needs.
All in the Family was intellectual it was art.
The person who knows one thing and does it better than anyone else, even if it only be the art of raising lentils, receives the crown he merits. If he raises all his energy to that end, he is a benefactor of mankind and its rewarded as such.
We all know that Art is not truth. Art is a lie that makes us realize the truth, at least the truth that is given to us to understand.
Religion is essentially the art and the theory of the remaking of man. Man is not a finished creation.
What I dream of is an art of balance, of purity and serenity devoid of troubling or depressing subject matter - a soothing, calming influence on the mind, rather like a good armchair which provides relaxation from physical fatigue.
All great art is the work of the whole living creature, body and soul, and chiefly of the soul.
The people who make art their business are mostly imposters.
Life is not an exact science, it is an art.
The art of life is to live in the present moment, and to make that moment as perfect as we can by the realization that we are the instruments and expression of God Himself.
To be able to endure odium is the first art to be learned by those who aspire to power.
If thou art a man, admire those who attempt great things, even though they fail.
Every bit of me is devoted to love and art. And I aspire to try to be a teacher to my young fans who feel just like I felt when I was younger. I just felt like a freak. I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm trying to liberate them, I want to free them of their fears and make them feel that they can make their own space in the world.
No great art has ever been made without the artist having known danger.
The enemy of art is the absence of limitations.
Only through art can we emerge from ourselves and know what another person sees.
Youth is the gift of nature, but age is a work of art.
I think music is the greatest art form that exists, and I think people listen to music for different reasons, and it serves different purposes. Some of it is background music, and some of it is things that might affect a person's day, if not their life, or change an attitude. The best songs are the ones that make you feel something.
Art never improves, but... the material of art is never quite the same.
Being an artist is dragging your innermost feelings out, giving a piece of yourself, no matter in which art form, in which medium.
The challenge is to practice politics as the art of making what appears to be impossible, possible.
Sculpture is the art of the intelligence.
The art of living well and the art of dying well are one.
What is Art? It is the response of man's creative soul to the call of the Real.
A great city, whose image dwells in the memory of man, is the type of some great idea. Rome represents conquest Faith hovers over the towers of Jerusalem and Athens embodies the pre-eminent quality of the antique world, Art.
Art can never exist without naked beauty displayed.
I think having land and not ruining it is the most beautiful art that anybody could ever want to own.
In Art, man reveals himself and not his objects.
Art is the tree of life. Science is the tree of death.
And the first rude sketch that the world had seen was joy to his mighty heart, till the Devil whispered behind the leaves 'It's pretty, but is it Art?'
Eloquence, n. The art of orally persuading fools that white is the color that it appears to be. It includes the gift of making any color appear white.
I am a poor man and of little worth, who is laboring in that art that God has given me in order to extend my life as long as possible.
All architecture is great architecture after sunset perhaps architecture is really a nocturnal art, like the art of fireworks.
Passion is universal humanity. Without it religion, history, romance and art would be useless.
Progressive art can assist people to learn not only about the objective forces at work in the society in which they live, but also about the intensely social character of their interior lives. Ultimately, it can propel people toward social emancipation.
Chance gives rise to thoughts, and chance removes them no art can keep or acquire them.
Great art is as irrational as great music. It is mad with its own loveliness.
A race is a work of art that people can look at and be affected in as many ways they're capable of understanding.
The art of leadership is saying no, not saying yes. It is very easy to say yes.
Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insufficient premises.
In seeking wisdom thou art wise in imagining that thou hast attained it - thou art a fool.
Every happening, great and small, is a parable whereby God speaks to us, and the art of life is to get the message.
Thou must be emptied of that wherewith thou art full, that thou mayest be filled with that whereof thou art empty.
Great nations write their autobiographies in three manuscripts - the book of their deeds, the book of their words and the book of their art.
The whole art of teaching is only the art of awakening the natural curiosity of young minds for the purpose of satisfying it afterwards.
Poetry is the art of substantiating shadows, and of lending existence to nothing.
I say that democracy can never prove itself beyond cavil, until it founds and luxuriantly grows its own forms of art, poems, schools, theology, displacing all that exists, or that has been produced anywhere in the past, under opposite influences.
Listen to your inner-voice: Surround yourself with loving, nurturing people. Fall in love with your art and find yourself. Music is the great communicator.
Winners have the ability to step back from the canvas of their lives like an artist gaining perspective. They make their lives a work of art - an individual masterpiece.
I am a walking piece of art every day, with my dreams and my ambitions forward at all times in an effort to inspire my fans to lead their life in that way.
The art of motherhood involves much silent, unobtrusive self-denial, an hourly devotion which finds no detail too minute.
The great art of life is sensation, to feel that we exist, even in pain.
The foundation of empire is art and science. Remove them or degrade them, and the empire is no more. Empire follows art and not vice versa as Englishmen suppose.
It is the addition of strangeness to beauty that constitutes the romantic character in art.
It is no great art to say something briefly when, like Tacitus, one has something to say when one has nothing to say, however, and none the less writes a whole book and makes truth into a liar - that I call an achievement.
If we know the divine art of concentration, if we know the divine art of meditation, if we know the divine art of contemplation, easily and consciously we can unite the inner world and the outer world.
When I am finishing a picture, I hold some God-made object up to it - a rock, a flower, the branch of a tree or my hand - as a final test. If the painting stands up beside a thing man cannot make, the painting is authentic. If there's a clash between the two, it's bad art.
There is nothing new in art except talent.
All that we call ideal in Greek or any other art, because to us it is false and visionary, was, to the makers of it, true and existent.
What is art? Nature concentrated.
Creative without strategy is called 'art.' Creative with strategy is called 'advertising.'
One of the interesting things here is that the people who should be shaping the future are politicians. But the political framework itself is so dead and closed that people look to other sources, like artists, because art and music allow people a certain freedom.
All things are artificial, for nature is the art of God.
History develops, art stands still.
The momentous thing in human life is the art of winning the soul to good or evil.
Life beats down and crushes the soul and art reminds you that you have one.
True ease in writing comes from art, not chance, as those who move easiest have learned to dance.
All humanity is passion without passion, religion, history, novels, art would be ineffectual.
We are all hungry and thirsty for concrete images. Abstract art will have been good for one thing: to restore its exact virginity to figurative art.
Those who gave thee a body, furnished it with weakness but He who gave thee Soul, armed thee with resolution. Employ it, and thou art wise be wise and thou art happy.
Art has the power to transform, to illuminate, to educate, inspire and motivate.
Art is only a means to life, to the life more abundant. It is not in itself the life more abundant. It merely points the way, something which is overlooked not only by the public, but very often by the artist himself. In becoming an end it defeats itself.
The mother art is architecture. Without an architecture of our own we have no soul of our own civilization.
Criticism is the windows and chandeliers of art: it illuminates the enveloping darkness in which art might otherwise rest only vaguely discernible, and perhaps altogether unseen.
What can be more foolish than to think that all this rare fabric of heaven and earth could come by chance, when all the skill of art is not able to make an oyster!
The art of using deceit and cunning grow continually weaker and less effective to the user.
Parents are usually more careful to bestow knowledge on their children rather than virtue, the art of speaking well rather than doing well but their manners should be of the greatest concern.
Great artists are people who find the way to be themselves in their art. Any sort of pretension induces mediocrity in art and life alike.
Really I don't like human nature unless all candied over with art.
O, thou art fairer than the evening air clad in the beauty of a thousand stars.
What I've discovered is that in art, as in music, there's a lot of truth-and then there's a lie. The artist is essentially creating his work to make this lie a truth, but he slides it in amongst all the others. The tiny little lie is the moment I live for, my moment. It's the moment that the audience falls in love.
Where thou art, that is home.
To speak of morals in art is to speak of legislature in sex. Art is the sex of the imagination.
I don't think about art when I'm working. I try to think about life.
No art can be noble which is incapable of expressing thought, and no art is capable of expressing thought which does not change.
Politics is the art of choosing between the disastrous and the unpalatable.
Poetry is the art of uniting pleasure with truth.
Diplomacy: the art of restraining power.
Land really is the best art.
Criticism is the art of appraising others at one's own value.
To do a dull thing with style-now that's what I call art.
It is in this power of saying everything, and yet saying nothing too plainly, that the perfection of art consists.
The art which we may call generally art of the wayside, as opposed to that which is the business of men's lives, is, in the best sense of the word, Grotesque.
Growing up going to Christian school and the concept that you're born a sinner and you don't really have a choice to change who you are has been hammered into my head and created the entire reason why I made art and made a band and made records called 'Antichrist Superstar.'
To me, photography is an art of observation. It's about finding something interesting in an ordinary place... I've found it has little to do with the things you see and everything to do with the way you see them.
Cunning is the art of concealing our own defects, and discovering other people's weaknesses.
I realised the bohemian life was not for me. I would look around at my friends, living like starving artists, and wonder, 'Where's the art?' They weren't doing anything. And there was so much interesting stuff to do, so much fun to be had... maybe I could even quit renting.
Patience is the art of hoping.
The man of genius is he and he alone who finds such joy in his art that he will work at it come hell or high water.
Religion and art spring from the same root and are close kin. Economics and art are strangers.
There is nothing in the world of art like the songs mother used to sing.
Simplicity and repose are the qualities that measure the true value of any work of art.
People who don't like me talk about it as though I'm trash because I have tattoos. I find that insane because it's 2008, not the 1950s. Tattoos aren't limited to sailors. It's a form of art I find beautiful. I love it.
Music happens to be an art form that transcends language.
Art is man's constant effort to create for himself a different order of reality from that which is given to him.
The true art of memory is the art of attention.
It's clever, but is it Art?
The sinews of art and literature, like those of war, are money.
The youth of an art is, like the youth of anything else, its most interesting period. When it has come to the knowledge of good and evil it is stronger, but we care less about it.
What is comedy? Comedy is the art of making people laugh without making them puke.
It is art that makes life, makes interest, makes importance... and I know of no substitute whatever for the force and beauty of its process.
Diversity: the art of thinking independently together.
The greatness of art is not to find what is common but what is unique.
There is nothing, Sir, too little for so little a creature as man. It is by studying little things that we attain the great art of having as little misery and as much happiness as possible.
Life is the art of being well deceived and in order that the deception may succeed it must be habitual and uninterrupted.
All nature is but art unknown to thee.
Men's magazines often feature pictures of naked ladies. Women's magazines also often feature pictures of naked ladies. This is because the female body is a beautiful work of art, while the male body is hairy and lumpy and should not be seen by the light of day.
What garlic is to salad, insanity is to art.
My trade and art is to live.
The only honest art form is laughter, comedy. You can't fake it... try to fake three laughs in an hour - ha ha ha ha ha - they'll take you away, man. You can't.
An artist cannot speak about his art any more than a plant can discuss horticulture.
Art begins in imitation and ends in innovation.
A work of art which did not begin in emotion is not art.
Architecture is the art of how to waste space.
Courtesy is a silver lining around the dark clouds of civilization it is the best part of refinement and in many ways, an art of heroic beauty in the vast gallery of man's cruelty and baseness.
Space is the breath of art.
Art does not reproduce what we see rather, it makes us see.
I think art education, especially in this country, which government pretty much ignores, is so important for young people.
Fame is the echo of actions, resounding them to the world, save that the echo repeats only the last art, but fame relates all, and often more than all.
If thou art a master, be sometimes blind if a servant, sometimes deaf.
Art is an attempt to integrate evil.
A work of art that contains theories is like an object on which the price tag has been left.
To want friendship is a great fault. Friendship ought to be a gratuitous joy, like the joys afforded by art or life.
Mild autism can give you a genius like Einstein. If you have severe autism, you could remain nonverbal. You don't want people to be on the severe end of the spectrum. But if you got rid of all the autism genetics, you wouldn't have science or art. All you would have is a bunch of social 'yak yaks.'
The sadness of the incomplete, the sadness that is often Life, but should never be Art.
Every work of art is an uncommitted crime.
You have to master not only the art of listening to your head, you must also master listening to your heart and listening to your gut.
One science only will one genius fit so vast is art, so narrow human wit.
There is no prejudice that the work of art does not finally overcome.
Memory is a great artist. For every man and for every woman it makes the recollection of his or her life a work of art and an unfaithful record.
The wealthy are always surrounded by hangers-on science and art are as well.
Like music and art, love of nature is a common language that can transcend political or social boundaries.
The work of art assumes the existence of the perfect spectator, and is indifferent to the fact that no such person exists.
Healing,' Papa would tell me, 'is not a science, but the intuitive art of wooing nature.
The first mistake of art is to assume that it's serious.
Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse. Whoever makes the fewest people uneasy is the best bred in the room.
Lying just for the fun of it is either art or pathology.
Death be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so. For, those, whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow. Die not, poor death, nor yet canst thou kill me.
Evil is committed without effort, naturally, fatally goodness is always the product of some art.
The educator must believe in the potential power of his pupil, and he must employ all his art in seeking to bring his pupil to experience this power.
The effort of art is to keep what is interesting in existence, to recreate it in the eternal.
I consider skateboarding an art form, a lifestyle and a sport. 'Action sport' would be the least offensive categorization.
In life, as in art, the beautiful moves in curves.
Logic is neither an art nor a science but a dodge.
The excellency of every art is its intensity, capable of making all disagreeable evaporate.
Let each man exercise the art he knows.
In science, as in art, and, as I believe, in every other sphere of human activity, there may be wisdom in a multitude of counsellors, but it is only in one or two of them.
You may choose your words like a connoisseur, And polish it up with art, But the word that sways, and stirs, and stays, Is the word that comes from the heart.
People are surprised at how down-to-earth I am. I like to stay home on Friday nights and listen to 'The Art of Happiness' by the Dalai Lama.
Emotion resulting from a work of art is only of value when it is not obtained by sentimental blackmail.
All good art is an indiscretion.
Great art is the contempt of a great man for small art.
I believe entertainment can aspire to be art, and can become art, but if you set out to make art you're an idiot.
Art, as far as it is able, follows nature, as a pupil imitates his master thus your art must be, as it were, God's grandchild.
Gossip is the art of saying nothing in a way that leaves practically nothing unsaid.
Errors are not in the art but in the artificers.
It is veneer, rouge, aestheticism, art museums, new theaters, etc. that make America impotent. The good things are football, kindness, and jazz bands.
Simplicity is the final achievement. After one has played a vast quantity of notes and more notes, it is simplicity that emerges as the crowning reward of art.
Art is the objectification of feeling.
There are worlds of experience beyond the world of the aggressive man, beyond history, and beyond science. The moods and qualities of nature and the revelations of great art are equally difficult to define we can grasp them only in the depths of our perceptive spirit.
The beginning of a friendship, the fact that two people out of the thousands around them can meet and connect and become friends, seems like a kind of magic to me. But maintaining a friendship requires work. I don't mean that as a bad thing. Good art requires work as well.
The sole art that suits me is that which, rising from unrest, tends toward serenity.
Art is the collaboration between God and the artist, and the less the artist does the better.
Deliver me from writers who say the way they live doesn't matter. I'm not sure a bad person can write a good book, If art doesn't make us better, then what on earth is it for.
Politics is not the art of the possible. It consists in choosing between the disastrous and the unpalatable.
Art has to move you and design does not, unless it's a good design for a bus.
The art of creation is older than the art of killing.
The best part of the art of living is to know how to grow old gracefully.
Every science begins as philosophy and ends as art.
The love of all-inclusiveness is as dangerous in philosophy as in art.
Great art is the outward expression of an inner life in the artist, and this inner life will result in his personal vision of the world.
We work in the dark - we do what we can - we give what we have. Our doubt is our passion and our passion is our task. The rest is the madness of art.
Besides the noble art of getting things done, there is the noble art of leaving things undone. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.
Art is moral passion married to entertainment. Moral passion without entertainment is propaganda, and entertainment without moral passion is television.
Telling lies is a fault in a boy, an art in a lover, an accomplishment in a bachelor, and second-nature in a married man.
If you are going to break a Law of Art, make the crime interesting.
The art of pleasing consists in being pleased.
When science, art, literature, and philosophy are simply the manifestation of personality they are on a level where glorious and dazzling achievements are possible, which can make a man's name live for thousands of years.
Wherever the art of medicine is loved, there is also a love of humanity.
Art is permitted to survive only if it renounces the right to be different, and integrates itself into the omnipotent realm of the profane.
The counterfeit and counterpart of Nature is reproduced in art.
The most seductive thing about art is the personality of the artist himself.
The art of Peace I practice has room for each of the world's eight million gods, and I cooperate with them all. The God of Peace is very great and enjoins all that is divine and enlightened in every land.
I like it when somebody tells me a story, and I actually really feel that that's becoming like a lost art in American cinema.
There's a lot of thought in art. People get to talk about important things. There's a lot of sex, you know, in art. There's a lot of naked women and men, and there's intrigue, there's fakery. It's a real microcosm of the larger world.
You want to be a bit compulsive in your art or craft or whatever you do.
I'm enamored with the art world. Anytime you look at anything that's considered artistic, there's a commercial world around it: the ballet, opera, any kind of music. It can't exist without it.
Art at its most significant is a Distant Early Warning System that can always be relied on to tell the old culture what is beginning to happen to it.
Most works of art, like most wines, ought to be consumed in the district of their fabrication.
Art is why I get up in the morning but my definition ends there. You know I don't think its fair that I'm living for something I can't even define.
People believe that photographs are true and therefore cannot be art.
Art seduces, but does not exploit.
Art is the most beautiful deception of all. And although people try to incorporate the everyday events of life in it, we must hope that it will remain a deception lest it become a utilitarian thing, sad as a factory.
To the man who loves art for its own sake, it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived.
Film will only became an art when its materials are as inexpensive as pencil and paper.
In art and dream may you proceed with abandon. In life may you proceed with balance and stealth.
Building art is a synthesis of life in materialised form. We should try to bring in under the same hat not a splintered way of thinking, but all in harmony together.
Skill without imagination is craftsmanship and gives us many useful objects such as wickerwork picnic baskets. Imagination without skill gives us modern art.
An art which isn't based on feeling isn't an art at all.
The knowledge of God is the cause of things. For the knowledge of God is to all creatures what the knowledge of the artificer is to things made by his art.
I can't satisfy myself with just trying to tie all of my imagination into music, especially when music is not appreciated as an art form as much as it used to be.
Art gives me the freedom I don't have when I make music.
The idea is, if I can't heal from my art, then how can you heal?
Riding a race bike is an art - a thing that you do because you feel something inside.
I try to keep a low profile in general. Not with my art, but just as a person.
In general it can be said that a nation's art is greatest when it most reflects the character of its people.
At the University of Maryland, my first year I started off planning to major in art because I was interested in theatre design, stage design or television design.
What an artist is trying to do for people is bring them closer to something, because of course art is about sharing. You wouldn't be an artist unless you wanted to share an experience, a thought.
What is art? Prostitution.
Art is not what you see, but what you make others see.
Design is the method of putting form and content together. Design, just as art, has multiple definitions there is no single definition. Design can be art. Design can be aesthetics. Design is so simple, that's why it is so complicated.
I don't have anything to say about other people's art and their work.
Patience is the art of concealing your impatience.
The screen is a magic medium. It has such power that it can retain interest as it conveys emotions and moods that no other art form can hope to tackle.
For his heart was in his work, and the heart giveth grace unto every art.
Resolve and thou art free.
Art is a harmony parallel with nature.
Film as dream, film as music. No art passes our conscience in the way film does, and goes directly to our feelings, deep down into the dark rooms of our souls.
I do not want art for a few any more than education for a few, or freedom for a few.
The style of ancient Egyptian art is transcendently clear, something 8-year-olds can recognize in an instant. Its consistency and codification is one of the most epic visual journeys in all art, one that lasts 30 dynasties spread over 3,000 years.
Egotism: The art of seeing in yourself what others cannot see.
A work of art has no importance whatever to society. It is only important to the individual.
I don't think any movie or any book or any work of art can solve the stalemate in the Middle East today. But it's certainly worth a try.
I think that one's art is a growth inside one. I do not think one can explain growth. It is silent and subtle. One does not keep digging up a plant to see how it grows.
It is a sad fact about our culture that a poet can earn much more money writing or talking about his art than he can by practicing it.
After a few months in my parents' basement, I took an apartment near the state university, where I discovered both crystal methamphetamine and conceptual art. Either one of these things are dangerous, but in combination they have the potential to destroy entire civilizations.
To know how to grow old is the master work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the great art of living.
I had wanted a tape recorder since I was tiny. I thought it was a magic thing. I never got one until just before I went to art school.
It is not hard to understand modern art. If it hangs on a wall it's a painting, and if you can walk around it it's a sculpture.
Art is anything you can get away with.
Everything a writer learns about the art or craft of fiction takes just a little away from his need or desire to write at all. In the end he knows all the tricks and has nothing to say.
Nature scarcely ever gives us the very best for that we must have recourse to art.
To say nothing, especially when speaking, is half the art of diplomacy.
Design in art, is a recognition of the relation between various things, various elements in the creative flux. You can't invent a design. You recognize it, in the fourth dimension. That is, with your blood and your bones, as well as with your eyes.
Oh literature, oh the glorious Art, how it preys upon the marrow in our bones. It scoops the stuffing out of us, and chucks us aside. Alas!
Everyone discusses my art and pretends to understand, as if it were necessary to understand, when it is simply necessary to love.
In its most limited sense, modern, art would seem to concern itself only with the technical innovations of the period.
The question of the value of nationality in art is perhaps unsolvable.
The trend in some of the contemporary movements in art, but by no means all, seems to deny this ideal and to me appears to lead to a purely decorative conception of painting.
Life is short, the art long.
Everything that has ever been called folk art has always reflected domination.
Music is your own experience, your own thoughts, your wisdom. If you don't live it, it won't come out of your horn. They teach you there's a boundary line to music. But, man, there's no boundary line to art.
My age and health will never allow me to realize the dream of art I've been pursuing all my life.
Don't be an art critic. Paint. There lies salvation.
Film editing is now something almost everyone can do at a simple level and enjoy it, but to take it to a higher level requires the same dedication and persistence that any art form does.
Love and business and family and religion and art and patriotism are nothing but shadows of words when a man's starving!
It ought to be illegal for an artist to marry. If the artist must marry let him find someone more interested in art, or his art, or the artist part of him, than in him. After which let them take tea together three times a week.
It is not in life, but in art that self-fulfillment is to be found.
Art lies by its own artifice.
Art has a double face, of expression and illusion, just like science has a double face: the reality of error and the phantom of truth.
Art and works of art do not make an artist sense and enthusiasm and instinct do.
You can't but know that if you can capture the emotions of the audience as well as their minds, the play will work better, because it's a narrative art form.
Teachers believe they have a gift for giving it drives them with the same irrepressible drive that drives others to create a work of art or a market or a building.
The art challenges the technology, and the technology inspires the art.
To say the word Romanticism is to say modern art - that is, intimacy, spirituality, color, aspiration towards the infinite, expressed by every means available to the arts.
What strikes me is the fact that in our society, art has become something which is only related to objects, and not to individuals, or to life.
Art is so subjective, and people can react however they want.
I'm free. I just do what I want, say what I want, say how I feel, and I don't try to hurt nobody. I just try to make sure that I don't compromise my art in any kind of way, and I think people respect that.
Rumors sound of galleries asking artists for upsized art and more of it. I've heard of photographers asked to print larger to increase the wall power and salability of their work. Everything winds up set to maximum in order to feed the beast.
To engage with art, we have to be willing to be wrong, venture outside our psychic comfort zones, suspend disbelief, and remember that art explores and alters consciousness simultaneously.
Summer is a great time to visit art museums, which offer the refreshing rinse of swimming pools - only instead of cool water, you immerse yourself in art.
I can't bear art that you can walk round and admire. A book should be either a bandit or a rebel or a man in the crowd.
Since obscenity is the truth of our passion today, it is the only stuff of art - or almost the only stuff.
The essential function of art is moral. But a passionate, implicit morality, not didactic. A morality which changes the blood, rather than the mind.
I am more a friend of art than a producer of painting.
You say a new era in art is preparing you sensed it coming continue your studies without weakening. God will do the rest.
I have nothing to hide in art. The initial force alone can bring anyone to the end he must attain.
Is art really the priesthood that demands the pure in heart who belong to it wholly?
A frenzied passion for art is a canker that devours everything else.
Evil is done without effort, naturally, it is the working of fate good is always the product of an art.
I didn't grow up thinking of movies as film, or art, but as movies, something to do on a Saturday afternoon.
The art of living is the art of knowing how to believe lies.
Let's talk of a system that transforms all the social organisms into a work of art, in which the entire process of work is included... something in which the principle of production and consumption takes on a form of quality. It's a Gigantic project.
Any authentic work of art must start an argument between the artist and his audience.
History repeats itself, but the special call of an art which has passed away is never reproduced. It is as utterly gone out of the world as the song of a destroyed wild bird.
One of the most amazing things about mathematics is the people who do math aren't usually interested in application, because mathematics itself is truly a beautiful art form. It's structures and patterns, and that's what we love, and that's what we get off on.
A rose is the visible result of an infinitude of complicated goings on in the bosom of the earth and in the air above, and similarly a work of art is the product of strange activities in the human mind.
It was Public Art, defined as art that is purchased by experts who are not spending their own personal money.
Art is not necessary at all. All that is necessary to make this world a better place to live in is to love - to love as Christ loved, as Buddha loved.
Advertising is fundamentally persuasion and persuasion happens to be not a science, but an art.
I was doing these performance art pop music pieces in the city. And they were a bit on the eccentric side I suppose. So people started to call me Gaga after the Queen song 'Radio Gaga.'
Medicine is not only a science it is also an art. It does not consist of compounding pills and plasters it deals with the very processes of life, which must be understood before they may be guided.
I would no more quarrel with a man because of his religion than I would because of his art.
So long as the system of competition in the production and exchange of the means of life goes on, the degradation of the arts will go on and if that system is to last for ever, then art is doomed, and will surely die that is to say, civilization will die.
Poor Georgia O'Keeffe. Death didn't soften the opinions of the art world toward her paintings.
I've always said that an art critic can put aside politics around art.
Megacollectors suppose they can enter art history by spending astronomical amounts.
The art gods cooked up something special for James Ensor.
All art comes from other art, and all immigrants come from other places.
When art wins, everyone wins.
I have a soft spot for art that, in terms of subject matter and material, is in bad taste.
Art is changing. Again. Here. Now. Opportunities to witness this are rare, so attend and observe.
Art is good, bad, boring, ugly, useful to us or not.
Recessions are hard on people, but they are not hard on art.
I like that the art world isn't regulated.
The art world is molting - some would say melting. Galleries are closing museums are scaling back.
Almost all institutions own a lot more art than they can ever show, much of it revealing for its timeliness, genius, or sheer weirdness.
The forties, seventies, and the nineties, when money was scarce, were great periods, when the art world retracted but it was also reborn.
Robert Rauschenberg was not a giant of American art he was the giant. No American created so many aesthetic openings for so many artists.
The Met is not only the finest encyclopedic museum of art in the United States it is arguably the finest anywhere.
Money is something that can be measured art is not. It's all subjective.
Contrary to popular opinion, things don't go stale particularly fast in the art world.
Art usually only makes the news in America when the subject is money.
I hate art auctions.
The price of a work of art has nothing to do with what the work of art is, can do, or is worth on an existential, alchemical level.
To me, nothing in the art world is neutral. The idea of 'disinterest' strikes me as boring, dishonest, dubious, and uninteresting.
The art world is an all-volunteer force. No one has to be here if he or she doesn't want to be, and we should be associating with anyone we want to.
Wolfgang Tillman's stunning large-scale pictures, being shown for the first time, were so offhand I failed to see them as art.
Galleries began growing in both number and size in the late seventies, when artists who worked in lofts wanted to exhibit their work in spaces similar to the ones the art was made in.
There's something pleasing about large, well-lit spaces. I love that dealers are willing to take massive chances in order to give this much room to their artists. Most of all, I love that more galleries showing more art gives more artists a shot.
First let me report that the art in the Barnes Collection has never looked better. My trips to the old Barnes were always amazing, but except on the sunniest days, you could barely see the art. The building always felt pushed beyond its capacity.
Not to say people shouldn't get rich from art. I adore the alchemy wherein artists who cast a complex spell make rich people give them their money. (Just writing it makes me cackle.) But too many artists have been making money without magic.
These days, newish art can be priced between $10,000 and $25,000. When I tell artists that a new painting by a newish artist should go for around $1,200, they look at me like I'm a flesh-eating virus.
In art, scandal is a false narrative, a smoke screen that camouflages rather than reveals. When we don't know what we're seeing, we overreact.
Damien Hirst is the Elvis of the English art world, its ayatollah, deliverer, and big-thinking entrepreneurial potty-mouthed prophet and front man. Hirst synthesizes punk, Pop Art, Jeff Koons, Marcel Duchamp, Francis Bacon, and Catholicism.
Anyone who relishes art should love the extraordinary diversity and psychic magic of our art galleries. There's likely more combined square footage for the showing of art on one New York block - West 24th Street between Tenth and Eleventh Avenues - than in all of Amsterdam's or Hamburg's galleries.
Yes, 85 percent of the art you see isn't any good. But everyone has a different opinion about which 85 percent is bad. That in turn creates fantastically unstable interplay and argument.
Many museums are drawing audiences with art that is ostensibly more entertaining than stuff that just sits and invites contemplation. Interactivity, gizmos, eating, hanging out, things that make noise - all are now the norm, often edging out much else.
Imagine it's 1981. You're an artist, in love with art, smitten with art history. You're also a woman, with almost no mentors to look to art history just isn't that into you. Any woman approaching art history in the early eighties was attempting to enter an almost foreign country, a restricted and exclusionary domain that spoke a private language.
Willem de Kooning is generally credited for coming out of the painterly gates strong in the forties, revolutionizing art and abstraction and reaching incredible heights by the early fifties, and then tailing off.
I also take pleasure in the so-called negative power in Grotjahn's work. That is, I love his paintings for what they are not. Unlike much art of the past decade, Grotjahn isn't simply working from a prescribed checklist of academically acceptable, curator-approved 'isms' and twists.
It is not possible to overstate the influence of Paul Cezanne on twentieth-century art. He's the modern Giotto, someone who shattered one kind of picture-making and invented a new one that the world followed.
The greatest work of art about New York? The question seems nebulous. The city's magic and majesty are distilled in the photographs of Alfred Stieglitz and Paul Strand.
Abstract Expressionism - the first American movement to have a worldwide influence - was remarkably short-lived: It heated up after World War II and was all but done for by 1960 (although visit any art school today and you'll find a would-be Willem de Kooning).
My culture-deprived, aspirational mother dragged me once a month from our northern suburb - where the word art never came up - to the Art Institute of Chicago. I hated it.
I'm noticing a new approach to art making in recent museum and gallery shows. It flickered into focus at the New Museum's 'Younger Than Jesus' last year and ran through the Whitney Biennial, and I'm seeing it blossom and bear fruit at 'Greater New York,' MoMA P.S. 1's twice-a-decade extravaganza of emerging local talent.
Outside museums, in noisy public squares, people look at people. Inside museums, we leave that realm and enter what might be called the group-mind, getting quiet to look at art.
It took the Metropolitan Museum of Art nearly 50 years to wake up to Pablo Picasso. It didn't own one of his paintings until 1946, when Gertrude Stein bequeathed that indomitable quasi-Cubistic picture of herself - a portrait of the writer as a sumo Buddha - to the Met, principally because she disliked the Museum of Modern Art.
All of Koons's best art - the encased vacuum cleaners, the stainless-steel Rabbit (the late-twentieth century's signature work of Simulationist sculpture), the amazing gleaming Balloon Dog, and the cast-iron re-creation of a Civil War mortar exhibited last month at the Armory - has simultaneously flaunted extreme realism, idealism, and fantasy.
Venice is the perfect place for a phase of art to die. No other city on earth embraces entropy quite like this magical floating mall.
Appropriation is the idea that ate the art world. Go to any Chelsea gallery or international biennial and you'll find it. It's there in paintings of photographs, photographs of advertising, sculpture with ready-made objects, videos using already-existing film.
After its hothouse incubation in the seventies, appropriation breathed important new life into art. This life flowered spectacularly over the decades - even if it's now close to aesthetic kudzu.
The New York art world readily proves people wrong. Just when folks say that things stink and flibbertigibbet critics wish the worst on us all because we're not pure enough, good omens appear.
Artistic qualities that once seemed undeniable don't seem so now. Sometimes these fluctuations are only fickleness of taste, momentary glitches in an artist's work, or an artist getting ahead of his audience (it took me ten years to catch up to Albert Oehlen). Other times, however, these problems mean there's something wrong with the art.
Can space break? I mean the space of art galleries. Over the past 100 years, art galleries have gone from looking like Beaux Arts salons to simple storefronts to industrial lofts to the gleaming giant white cubes of Chelsea with their shiny concrete floors.
It's great that New York has large spaces for art. But the enormous immaculate box has become a dated, even oppressive place. Many of these spaces were designed for sprawling installations, large paintings, and the Relational Aesthetics work of the past fifteen years.
The giant white cube is now impeding rather than enhancing the rhythms of art. It preprograms a viewer's journey, shifts the emphasis from process to product, and lacks individuality and openness. It's not that art should be seen only in rutty bombed-out environments, but it should seem alive.
It's art that pushes against psychological and social expectations, that tries to transform decay into something generative, that is replicative in a baroque way, that isn't about progress, and wants to - as Walt Whitman put it - 'contain multitudes.'
The last time money left the art world, intrepid types maxed out their credit cards and opened galleries, and a few of them have become the best in the world.
Much good art got made while money ruled I like a lot of it, and hardship and poverty aren't virtues. The good news is that, since almost no one will be selling art, artists - especially emerging ones - won't have to think about turning out a consistent style or creating a brand. They'll be able to experiment as much as they want.
While a large segment of the art world has obsessed over a tiny number of stars and their prices, an aesthetic shift has been occurring. It's not a movement - movements are more sure of themselves. It's a change of mood or expectation, a desire for art to be more than showy effects, big numbers, and gamesmanship.
When money and hype recede from the art world, one thing I won't miss will be what curator Francesco Bonami calls the 'Eventocracy.' All this flashy 'art-fair art' and those highly produced space-eating spectacles and installations wow you for a minute until you move on to the next adrenaline event.
A saboteur in the house of art and a comedienne in the house of art theory, Lawler has spent three decades documenting the secret life of art. Functioning as a kind of one-woman CSI unit, she has photographed pictures and objects in collectors' homes, in galleries, on the walls of auction houses, and off the walls, in museum storage.
Works of art often last forever, or nearly so. But exhibitions themselves, especially gallery exhibitions, are like flowers they bloom and then they die, then exist only as memories, or pressed in magazines and books.
If only we could persuade galleries to observe a fallow period in which, for two months every other year, new and old works of art could be sold in back rooms and all main galleries would be devoted to revisiting shows gone by.
A canon is antithetical to everything the New York art world has been about for the past 40 years, during which we went from being the center of the art world to being one of many centers.
It took me twenty years to get Steven Parrino's work. From the time I first saw his art, in the mid-eighties, I almost always dismissed it as mannered, Romantic, formulaic, conceptualist-formalist heavy-metal boy-art abstraction.
"Untitled' is a time machine that can transport you to 1992, an edgy moment when the art world was crumbling, money was scarce, and artists like Tiravanija were in the nascent stages of combining Happenings, performance art, John Cage, Joseph Beuys, and the do-it-yourself ethos of punk. Meanwhile, a new art world was coming into being.;Jerry Saltz;art
4334;Many art-worlders have an if-you-say-so approach to art: Everyone is so scared of missing out on the next hot artist that it's never clear whether people are liking work because they like it or because other people do. Everyone is keeping up with the Joneses, and there are more Joneses than ever.;Jerry Saltz;art
4335;A sad fact of life lately at the Museum of Modern Art is that when it comes to group shows of contemporary painting from the collection, the bar has been set pretty low.;Jerry Saltz;art
4336;The alchemy of good curating amounts to this: Sometimes, placing one work of art near another makes one plus one equal three. Two artworks arranged alchemically leave each intact, transform both, and create a third thing.;Jerry Saltz;art
4337;Everyone goes to the same exhibitions and the same parties, stays in the same handful of hotels, eats at the same no-star restaurants, and has almost the same opinions. I adore the art world, but this is copycat behavior in a sphere that prides itself on independent thinking.;Jerry Saltz;art
4338;Mission accomplished. The Museum of Modern Art's wide-open, tall-ceilinged, super-reinforced second floor was for all intents and purposes built to accommodate monumental installations and gigantic sculptures, should the need arise. It has arisen.;Jerry Saltz;art
4339;'Summer of Love: Art of the Psychedelic Era,' the Whitney Museum's 40th-anniversary trip down counterculture memory lane, provides moments of buzzy fun, but it'll leave you only comfortably numb. For starters, it may be the whitest, straightest, most conservative show seen in a New York museum since psychedelia was new.;Jerry Saltz;art
4340;Kinkade estimated that one of his paintings hung in every twenty homes in America. Yet the art world unanimously ignores or reviles him. Me included.;Jerry Saltz;art
4341;Those who love him love that he sells the most art they take it as a point of faith that this proves Kinkade is the best. But his fans don't only rely on this supply-and-demand justification. They go back to values.;Jerry Saltz;art
4342;The reason the art world doesn't respond to Kinkade is because none - not one - of his ideas about subject-matter, surface, color, composition, touch, scale, form, or skill is remotely original. They're all cliche and already told.;Jerry Saltz;art
4343;Kinkade's paintings are worthless schmaltz, and the lamestream media that love him are wrong. However, I'd love to see a museum mount a small show of Kinkade's work. I would like the art world and the wider world to argue about him in public, out in the open.;Jerry Saltz;art
4344;Auction houses run a rigged game. They know exactly how many people will be bidding on a work and exactly who they are. In a gallery, works of art need only one person who wants to pay for them.;Jerry Saltz;art
4345;Artschwager's art always involves looking closely at surfaces, questions what an object is, wants to make you forget the name of the thing you're looking at so that it might mushroom in your mind into something that triggers unexpected infinities.;Jerry Saltz;art
4346;Early-twentieth-century abstraction is art's version of Einstein's Theory of Relativity. It's the idea that changed everything everywhere: quickly, decisively, for good.;Jerry Saltz;art
4347;The Metropolitan Museum of Art is unsurpassed at presenting more than 50 centuries of work. I go there constantly, seeing things over and over, better than I've ever seen them before.;Jerry Saltz;art
4348;If the Frieze Art Fair catches on, I imagine at least two great things happening. First, we will once again have a huge art fair in town that isn't too annoying to go to. More importantly, Frieze may finally show New Yorkers that we can cross our own waters for visual culture. That would change everything.;Jerry Saltz;art
4349;Art is for anyone. It just isn't for everyone. Still, over the past decade, its audience has hugely grown, and that's irked those outside the art world, who get irritated at things like incomprehensibility or money.;Jerry Saltz;art
4350;I often find myself privately stewing about much British art, thinking that except for their tremendous gardens, that the English are not primarily visual artists, and are, in nearly unsurpassable ways, literary.;Jerry Saltz;art
4351;A metaphysical tour de force of untethered meaning and involuting interlocking contrapuntal rhythms, 'The Clock' is more than a movie or even a work of art. It is so strange and other-ish that it becomes a stream-of-consciousness algorithm unto itself - something almost inhuman.;Jerry Saltz;art
4352;I don't know much about auctions. I sometimes go to previews and see art sardined into ugly rooms. I've gawked at the gaudy prices, and gaped at well-clad crowds of happy white people conspicuously spending hundreds of millions of dollars.;Jerry Saltz;art
4353;I love art dealers. In some ways, they're my favorite people in the art world. Really. I love that they put their money where their taste is, create their own aesthetic universes, support artists, employ people, and do all of this while letting us see art for free. Many are visionaries.;Jerry Saltz;art
4354;When museums are built these days, architects, directors, and trustees seem most concerned about social space: places to have parties, eat dinner, wine-and-dine donors. Sure, these are important these days - museums have to bring in money - but they gobble up space and push the art itself far away from the entrance.;Jerry Saltz;art
4355;I see 30 to 40 gallery shows a week, and no matter what kind of mood I'm in, no matter how bad the art is, I almost always feel better afterward. I can learn as much from bad art as from good.;Jerry Saltz;art
4356;Jeffrey Deitch is the Jeff Koons of art dealers. Not because he's the biggest, best, or the richest of his kind. But because in some ways he's the weirdest (which is saying a lot when you're talking about the wonderful, wicked, lovable, and annoying creatures known as art dealers).;Jerry Saltz;art
4357;Many say an art dealer running a museum is a 'conflict of interest.' But maybe the art world has lived an artificial or unintentional lie all of these years when it comes to conflicts of interest.;Jerry Saltz;art
4358;Of course art world ethics are important. But museums are no purer than any other institution or business. Academics aren't necessarily more high-minded than gallerists.;Jerry Saltz;art
4359;We're all entitled to opinions about how art institutions should behave, and entitled to voicing those opinions through whatever means available to us. We're also allowed to change or modify our opinions.;Jerry Saltz;art
4360;Art is a marriage of the conscious and the unconscious.;Jean Cocteau;art
4361;I don't listen to what art critics say. I don't know anybody who needs a critic to find out what art is.;Jean-Michel Basquiat;art
4362;To play safe, I prefer to accept only one type of power: the power of art over trash, the triumph of magic over the brute.;Vladimir Nabokov;art
4363;Writing is truly a creative art - putting word to a blank piece of paper and ending up with a full-fledged story rife with character and plot.;William Shatner;art
4364;Cinema is still a very young art form with extraordinary techniques and very impressive special effects but sometimes it seems the soul has been taken out of things.;Catherine Deneuve;art
4365;Out with stereotypes, feminism proclaims. But stereotypes are the west's stunning sexual personae, the vehicles of art's assault against nature. The moment there is imagination, there is myth.;Camille Paglia;art
4366;Once you take yourself too seriously the art will suffer.;Maynard James Keenan;art
4367;Politics is the art of preventing people from busying themselves with what is their own business.;Paul Valery;art
4368;What the mass media offers is not popular art, but entertainment which is intended to be consumed like food, forgotten, and replaced by a new dish.;W. H. Auden;art
4369;Trauma happens in relationships, so it can only be healed in relationships. Art can't provide healing. It can be cathartic and therapeutic but a relationship is a three-part journey.;Alanis Morissette;art
4370;Art is not a pastime but a priesthood.;Jean Cocteau;art
4371;Irresponsibility is part of the pleasure of all art it is the part the schools cannot recognize.;James Joyce;art
4372;As in nature, as in art, so in grace it is rough treatment that gives souls, as well as stones, their luster.;Thomas Guthrie;art
4373;The art of writing is the art of discovering what you believe.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4374;Art requires neither complaisance nor politeness nothing but faith, faith and freedom.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4375;You can calculate the worth of a man by the number of his enemies, and the importance of a work of art by the harm that is spoken of it.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4376;There are neither good nor bad subjects. From the point of view of pure Art, you could almost establish it as an axiom that the subject is irrelevant, style itself being an absolute manner of seeing things.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4377;The only way to avoid being unhappy is to close yourself up in Art and to count for nothing all the rest.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4378;The cult of art gives pride one never has too much of it.;Gustave Flaubert;art
4379;The artist must create a spark before he can make a fire and before art is born, the artist must be ready to be consumed by the fire of his own creation.;Auguste Rodin;art
4380;With care, and skill, and cunning art, She parried Time's malicious dart, And kept the years at bay, Till passion entered in her heart and aged her in a day!;Ella Wheeler Wilcox;art
4381;Man is unique not because he does science, and his is unique not because he does art, but because science and art equally are expressions of his marvelous plasticity of mind.;Jacob Bronowski;art
4382;Modern bodybuilding is ritual, religion, sport, art, and science, awash in Western chemistry and mathematics. Defying nature, it surpasses it.;Camille Paglia;art
4383;I do not regard advertising as entertainment or an art form, but as a medium of information.;David Ogilvy;art
4384;Love the art in yourself and not yourself in the art.;Constantin Stanislavski;art
4385;Art and science have their meeting point in method.;Edward G. Bulwer-Lytton;art
4386;Flirting is the gentle art of making a man feel pleased with himself.;Helen Rowland;art
4387;I have never denied my background or my culture. I have taught my child to embrace her Mexican heritage, to love my first language, Spanish, to learn about Mexican history, music, folk art, food, and even the Mexican candy I grew up with.;Salma Hayek;art
4388;A nation devoid of art and artists cannot have a full existence.;Kemal Ataturk;art
4389;It's an art to live with pain... mix the light into gray.;Eddie Vedder;art
4390;Art is born of humiliation.;W. H. Auden;art
4391;Art is much less important than life, but what a poor life without it.;Robert Motherwell;art
4392;I got my diploma from Ealing College of Art, in graphics and illustration.;Freddie Mercury;art
4393;Diplomacy, n. is the art of letting somebody else have your way.;David Frost;art
4394;In the first book of my Discworld series, published more than 26 years ago, I introduced Death as a character there was nothing particularly new about this - death has featured in art and literature since medieval times, and for centuries we have had a fascination with the Grim Reaper.;Terry Pratchett;art
4395;In mathematics the art of proposing a question must be held of higher value than solving it.;Georg Cantor;art
4396;Poetry is a beautiful way of spoiling prose, and the laborious art of exchanging plain sense for harmony.;Horace Walpole;art
4397;Music is God's gift to man, the only art of Heaven given to earth, the only art of earth we take to Heaven.;Walter Savage Landor;art
4398;The public history of modern art is the story of conventional people not knowing what they are dealing with.;Golda Meir;art
4399;I think art is inherently nonviolent and it actually occupies your mind with creation rather than destruction.;Anthony Kiedis;art
4400;Modernity is the transient, the fleeting, the contingent it is one half of art, the other being the eternal and the immovable.;Charles Baudelaire;art
4401;Who would dare assign to art the sterile function of imitating nature?;Charles Baudelaire;art
4402;Art! Who comprehends her? With whom can one consult concerning this great goddess?;Ludwig van Beethoven;art
4403;Black literature is taught as sociology, as tolerance, not as a serious, rigorous art form.;Toni Morrison;art
4404;Art is always criticized and always an outsider gets the blame.;Ville Valo;art
4405;Medicine is a science of uncertainty and an art of probability.;William Osler;art
4406;Art saved me it got me through my depression and self-loathing, back to a place of innocence.;Jeanette Winterson;art
4407;Artists don't talk about art. Artists talk about work. If I have anything to say to young writers, it's stop thinking of writing as art. Think of it as work.;Paddy Chayefsky;art
4408;Jazz is known all over the world as an American musical art form and that's it. No America, no jazz. I've seen people try to connect it to other countries, for instance to Africa, but it doesn't have a damn thing to do with Africa.;Art Blakey;art
4409;Art attracts us only by what it reveals of our most secret self.;Alfred North Whitehead;art
4410;To injure an opponent is to injure yourself. To control aggression without inflicting injury is the Art of Peace.;Morihei Ueshiba;art
4411;I'm very manipulative towards directors. My theory is that everyone on the set is directing the film, we're all receiving art messages from the universe on how we should do the film.;Jeff Bridges;art
4412;I'm very much into the costuming of any character that I portray and it's one of the great things about making movies is it's a collaborative art form so you get all these artists who are looking specifically about for this instance your character's costume and what that might tell about your character.;Jeff Bridges;art
4413;A primary function of art and thought is to liberate the individual from the tyranny of his culture in the environmental sense and to permit him to stand beyond it in an autonomy of perception and judgment.;Beverly Sills;art
4414;Becoming emancipated at 14, my life wasn't normal. I didn't have to go to school, so I didn't. I was rebellious by nature. I spent my 20s focusing on my company, Flower Films, and producing movies. Now that I'm almost 30, I would like to try other things in lie. I'm crazy about photography, and I want to take an art history class.;Drew Barrymore;art
4415;I love doing normal things - movies, shopping, going out with friends, writing, reading, taking hot bubble baths - that's a big one for relaxation. I also love to go to art and history museums.;Christina Aguilera;art
4416;Piano playing is a dying art. I love the fact that I can be one guy with one instrument evoking an emotional and musical experience.;Jon Bon Jovi;art
4417;I don't believe in art. I believe in artists.;Marcel Duchamp;art
4418;Art is like a border of flowers along the course of civilization.;Lincoln Steffens;art
4419;Life is the only art that we are required to practice without preparation, and without being allowed the preliminary trials, the failures and botches, that are essential for training.;Lewis Mumford;art
4420;People discuss my art and pretend to understand as if it were necessary to understand, when it's simply necessary to love.;Claude Monet;art
4421;There is no more difficult art to acquire than the art of observation, and for some men it is quite as difficult to record an observation in brief and plain language.;William Osler;art
4422;The work of art, just like any fragment of human life considered in its deepest meaning, seems to me devoid of value if it does not offer the hardness, the rigidity, the regularity, the luster on every interior and exterior facet, of the crystal.;Pope Paul VI;art
4423;The contemporary thing in art and literature is the thing which doesn't make enough difference to the people of that generation so that they can accept it or reject it.;Gertrude Stein;art
4424;I love prints of skulls and bones and have some taxidermy - a crow and a rabbit - to remind me of home. I like art and have a big portrait of Bjork.;Ellie Goulding;art
4425;The art of pleasing is the art of deception.;Luc de Clapiers;art
4426;Football is an art, like dancing is an art - but only when it's well done does it become an art.;Arsene Wenger;art
4427;Modernity is the transitory, the fugitive, the contingent, which make up one half of art, the other being the eternal and the immutable. This transitory fugitive element, which is constantly changing, must not be despised or neglected.;Charles Baudelaire;art
4428;It is from the womb of art that criticism was born.;Charles Baudelaire;art
4429;Modernity signifies the transitory, the fugitive, the contingent, the half of art of which the other half is the eternal and the immutable.;Charles Baudelaire;art
4430;Art is not living. It is the use of living.;Audre Lorde;art
4431;The work of art is a scream of freedom.;Christo;art
4432;The body is your instrument in dance, but your art is outside that creature, the body.;Martha Graham;art
4433;Art is contemplation. It is the pleasure of the mind which searches into nature and which there divines the spirit of which nature herself is animated.;Auguste Rodin;art
4434;Education is the art of making man ethical.;Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel;art
4435;The art of mastering life is the prerequisite for all further forms of expression, whether they are paintings, sculptures, tragedies, or musical compositions.;Paul Klee;art
4436;I like science and I love gym. Oh, and I like art, but I'm really bad at it. I'm just a terrible drawer. I can't draw a circle. Even with a ruler, I can't draw a straight line.;Daniel Radcliffe;art
4437;Modesty: the gentle art of enhancing your charm by pretending not to be aware of it.;Oliver Herford;art
4438;I don't watch television, I think it destroys the art of talking about oneself.;Stephen Fry;art
4439;Great art speaks a language which every intelligent person can understand. The people who call themselves modernists today speak a different language.;Marshall McLuhan;art
4440;All good criticism should be judged the way art is. You shouldn't read it the way you read history or science.;Leslie Fiedler;art
4441;The art of dancing stands at the source of all the arts that express themselves first in the human person. The art of building, or architecture, is the beginning of all the arts that lie outside the person and in the end they unite.;Havelock Ellis;art
4442;My parents started with very little and were the only ones in their families to graduate from college. As parents, they focused on education, but did not stop at academics - they made sure that we knew music, saw art and theatre and traveled - even though it meant budgeting like crazy.;Jennifer Garner;art
4443;A Bachelor of Arts is one who makes love to a lot of women, and yet has the art to remain a bachelor.;Helen Rowland;art
4444;Film in the 20th century, it's the American art form, like jazz.;Martin Scorsese;art
4445;Nature is the art of God.;Dante Alighieri;art
4446;I don't think there is such a thing as being too raunchy when it comes to the art form of burlesque.;Christina Aguilera;art
4447;I don't think art is propaganda it should be something that liberates the soul, provokes the imagination and encourages people to go further. It celebrates humanity instead of manipulating it.;Keith Haring;art
4448;Let us be true: this is the highest maxim of art and of life, the secret of eloquence and of virtue, and of all moral authority.;Henri Frederic Amiel;art
4449;History has remembered the kings and warriors, because they destroyed art has remembered the people, because they created.;William Morris;art
4450;I just wish the crowd I was associated with was more passionate about what they were doing and less consumed with the commerce of the art form.;Shia LaBeouf;art
4451;Animation is not the art of drawings that move but the art of movements that are drawn.;Norman McLaren;art
4452;The reward of art is not fame or success but intoxication: that is why so many bad artists are unable to give it up.;Jean Cocteau;art
4453;At the beginning of the 20th century, the ambition of the great painters was to make paintings that were like music, which was then considered as the noblest art.;Brian Eno;art
4454;The smart thing in the art world is to have one good idea and never have another.;Brian Eno;art
4455;The prerequisite of originality is the art of forgetting, at the proper moment, what we know.;Arthur Koestler;art
4456;One of the things you're doing when you make art, apart from entertaining yourself and other people, is trying to see what ways of working feel good, what feels right.;Brian Eno;art
4457;Art is Art. Everything else is everything else.;Ad Reinhardt;art
4458;All art constantly aspires towards the condition of music.;Walter Pater;art
4459;I've got tonnes of aboriginal and Native American art, but I'd like even more.;Tori Amos;art
4460;I don't want life to imitate art. I want life to be art.;Ernst Fischer;art
4461;I think most art comes out of poverty and hard times.;Willie Nelson;art
4462;Your talent is your art. It is not to be taken for granted.;Paula Abdul;art
4463;Our individual lives cannot, generally, be works of art unless the social order is also.;Charles Horton Cooley;art
4464;You are welcome to your intellectual pastimes and books and art and newspapers welcome, too, to your bars and your whisky that only makes me ill. Here am I in the forest, quite content.;Knut Hamsun;art
4465;The commonality between science and art is in trying to see profoundly - to develop strategies of seeing and showing.;Edward Tufte;art
4466;Reason clears and plants the wilderness of the imagination to harvest the wheat of art.;Austin O'Malley;art
4467;Censorship is to art as lynching is to justice.;Henry Louis Gates;art
4468;The art world can be very intimidating because it's just so vast. You talk to people who are really clued in to all the young artists and coming into it you're never going to be able to catch up immediately, even though there's pressure to.;Daniel Radcliffe;art
4469;I have discovered the art of deceiving diplomats. I tell them the truth and they never believe me.;Camillo di Cavour;art
4470;There are so many opportunities in life, that the loss of two or three capabilities is not necessarily debilitating. A handicap can give you the opportunity to focus more on art, writing, or music.;Jim Davis;art
4471;Art is the most passionate orgy within man's grasp.;John Donne;art
4472;Smiles come naturally to me, but I started thinking of them as an art form at my command. I studied all the time. I looked at magazines, I'd practice in front of the mirror and I'd ask photographers about the best angles. I can now pull out a smile at will.;Tyra Banks;art
4473;Art cannot result from sophisticated, frivolous, or superficial effects.;Hans Hofmann;art
4474;It's an honor putting art above politics. Politics can be seductive in terms of things reductive to the soul.;Robert Redford;art
4475;I'm not interested in pop art.;Billy Corgan;art
4476;Wit as an instrument of revenge is as infamous as art is as a means of sensual titillation.;Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel;art
4477;In the world of language, or in other words in the world of art and liberal education, religion necessarily appears as mythology or as Bible.;Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel;art
4478;Because most people are not sufficiently employed in themselves, they run about loose, hungering for employment, and satisfy themselves in various supererogatory occupations. The easiest of these occupations, which have all to do with making things already made, is the making of people: it is called the art of friendship.;Laura Riding;art
4479;An aphorism ought to be entirely isolated from the surrounding world like a little work of art and complete in itself like a hedgehog.;Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel;art
4480;Mathematics is, as it were, a sensuous logic, and relates to philosophy as do the arts, music, and plastic art to poetry.;Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel;art
4481;Form your life humanly, and you have done enough: but you will never reach the height of art and the depth of science without something divine.;Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel;art
4482;Nothing is as dangerous in architecture as dealing with separated problems. If we split life into separated problems we split the possibilities to make good building art.;Alvar Aalto;art
4483;As I grew older, I realized that it was much better to insist on the genuine forms of nature, for simplicity is the greatest adornment of art.;Albrecht Durer;art
4484;I think of art, at its most significant, as a DEW line, a Distant Early Warning system that can always be relied on to tell the old culture what is beginning to happen to it.;Marshall McLuhan;art
4485;I'd love to go to art school. I'd love to learn how to draw. I'd love to be fluent in Spanish. I'd like to be a brain surgeon.;Billie Joe Armstrong;art
4486;People of art should never get married and have children, because it's a selfish experience.;Mikhail Baryshnikov;art
4487;It has always been difficult for Man to realize that his life is all an art. It has been more difficult to conceive it so than to act it so. For that is always how he has more or less acted it.;Havelock Ellis;art
4488;Rule of art: Cant kills creativity!;Camille Paglia;art
4489;Actually I think Art lies in both directions - the broad strokes, big picture but on the other hand the minute examination of the apparently mundane. Seeing the whole world in a grain of sand, that kind of thing.;Peter Hammill;art
4490;Does art have a future? Performance genres like opera, theater, music and dance are thriving all over the world, but the visual arts have been in slow decline for nearly 40 years. No major figure of profound influence has emerged in painting or sculpture since the waning of Pop Art and the birth of Minimalism in the early 1970s.;Camille Paglia;art
4491;And I have exposed myself to art so that my work has something beyond just the usual potter.;Beatrice Wood;art
4492;Originality is the art of concealing your source.;Franklin P. Jones;art
4493;Art is creative for the sake of realization, not for amusement... for transfiguration, not for the sake of play.;Max Beckmann;art
4494;The strangeness will wear off and I think we will discover the deeper meanings in modern art.;Jackson Pollock;art
4495;I don't need the money, dear. I work for art.;Maria Callas;art
4496;Customs and convictions change respectable people are the last to know, or to admit, the change, and the ones most offended by fresh reflections of the facts in the mirror of art.;John Updike;art
4497;When hospitality becomes an art it loses its very soul.;Max Beerbohm;art
4498;A verbal art like poetry is reflective it stops to think. Music is immediate, it goes on to become.;W. H. Auden;art
4499;It's a sad fact about our culture that a poet can earn much more money writing or talking about his art than he can by practicing it.;W. H. Auden;art
4500;Art is our chief means of breaking bread with the dead.;W. H. Auden;art
4501;The art of interpretation is not to play what is written.;Pablo Casals;art
4502;I am trying to make art that relates to the deepest and most mythic concerns of human kind and I believe that, at this moment of history, feminism is humanism.;Judy Chicago;art
4503;All works of art are commissioned in the sense that no artist can create one by a simple act of will but must wait until what he believes to be a good idea for a work comes to him.;W. H. Auden;art
4504;In every work of art the subject is primordial, whether the artist knows it or not. The measure of the formal qualities is only a sign of the measure of the artist's obsession with his subject the form is always in proportion to the obsession.;Alberto Giacometti;art
4505;To know how to suggest is the great art of teaching. To attain it we must be able to guess what will interest we must learn to read the childish soul as we might a piece of music. Then, by simply changing the key, we keep up the attraction and vary the song.;Henri Frederic Amiel;art
4506;In fact, in many ways my mother was quite hippy-dippy, serving macrobiotic food and reading 'Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance."
Another unsettling element in modern art is that common symptom of immaturity, the dread of doing what has been done before.
Art is the signature of civilizations.
Although all the good arts serve to draw man's mind away from vices and lead it toward better things, this function can be more fully performed by this art, which also provides extraordinary intellectual pleasure.
The details are the very source of expression in architecture. But we are caught in a vice between art and the bottom line.
Surrealism: An archaic term. Formerly an art movement. No longer distinguishable from everyday life.
I try to give people a different way of looking at their surroundings. That's art to me.
Translation is the art of failure.
Life is very nice, but it lacks form. It's the aim of art to give it some.
I'm very happy to hear that my work inspires writers and painters. It's the most beautiful compliment, the greatest reward. Art should always be an exchange.
Literature is the art of discovering something extraordinary about ordinary people, and saying with ordinary words something extraordinary.
Raising children is a creative endeavor, an art rather than a science.
The whole aspect of cinema and film festivals should be a moment to come together and celebrate art and humanity. It would be a shame if there was such a divide.
The art of economics consists in looking not merely at the immediate but at the longer effects of any act or policy it consists in tracing the consequences of that policy not merely for one group but for all groups.
All art is exorcism. I paint dreams and visions too the dreams and visions of my time. Painting is the effort to produce order order in yourself. There is much chaos in me, much chaos in our time.
Shadows sometimes people don't see shadows. The Chinese of course never paint them in pictures, oriental art never deals with shadow. But I noticed these shadows and I knew it meant it was sunny.
Success and the art of making music are two different things for me.
People criticized me for my photography. They said it's not art.
I always feel like the art's there and I just see it, so it's not really a lot of work.
I went to art school actually when I was sixteen years old.
How can anybody learn anything from an artwork when the piece of art only reflects the vanity of the artist and not reality?
Anyway I feel myself a bit on the edge on the art world, but I don't mind, I'm just pursuing my work in a very excited way. And there isn't really a mainstream anymore, is there?
If you don't get noticed, you don't have anything. You just have to be noticed, but the art is in getting noticed naturally, without screaming or without tricks.
It seems almost backwards to me that my music seems the more emotional outlet, and the art stuff seems more about ideas.
Real popular culture is folk art - coalminers' songs and so forth.
I want to serve chess through games, books that are works of art. I would like to bring the game closer to many people all over the world.
It's important to debunk the myths of Africa being this benighted continent civilized only when white people arrived. In fact, Africans had been creators of culture for thousands of years before. These were very intelligent, subtle and sophisticated people, with organized societies and great art.
In our life there is a single color, as on an artist's palette, which provides the meaning of life and art. It is the color of love.
I want art to make me think. In order to do that, it may piss me off, or make me uncomfortable. That promotes awareness and change, or at least some discussion.
Art is vice. You don't marry it legitimately, you rape it.
Controversy is part of the nature of art and creativity.
Oh yeah, I mean every fighter has got be dedicated, learn how to sacrifice, know what the devotion is all about, make sure you're paying attention and studying your art.
I am an anarchist in politics and an impressionist in art as well as a symbolist in literature. Not that I understand what these terms mean, but I take them to be all merely synonyms of pessimist.
The Dancer believes that his art has something to say which cannot be expressed in words or in any other way than by dancing.
Life is like art. You have to work hard to keep it simple and still have meaning.
Ability is the art of getting credit for all the home runs somebody else hits.
Interpretation is the revenge of the intellectual upon art.
The 1990s, after the reign of terror of academic vandalism, will be a decade of restoration: restoration of meaning, value, beauty, pleasure, and emotion to art and restoration of art to its audience.
In an era ruled by materialism and unstable geopolitics, art must be restored to the center of public education.
Because most of my career in the classroom has been at art schools (beginning at Bennington in the 1970s), I am hyper-aware of the often grotesque disconnect between commentary on the arts and the actual practice or production of the arts.
One of the main reasons I am so drawn to Hitchcock is that he planned his shots way in advance on story-boards, which he designed like classic paintings (he was an art connoisseur). It's why he found shooting on set boring - because he had already composed the film in his head.
Madonna remains the most visible performer on the planet, as well as one of the wealthiest, but would anyone seriously say that artistic self-development is her primary motivating principle? She is too busy with Kabbalah, fashion merchandising, adoption melodramas, the gym, and ill-starred horseback riding to study art.
It's high time for the art world to admit that the avant-garde is dead. It was killed by my hero, Andy Warhol, who incorporated into his art all the gaudy commercial imagery of capitalism (like Campbell's soup cans) that most artists had stubbornly scorned.
To me, art supplies are always okay to buy.
Art is something to be proud of. Art is no compromise.
But theater, because of its nature, both text, images, multimedia effects, has a wider base of communication with an audience. That's why I call it the most social of the various art forms.
The problem is that once the rules of art are debunked, and once the unpleasant realities the irony diagnoses are revealed and diagnosed, 'then' what do we do?
Deals are my art form. Other people paint beautifully on canvas or write wonderful poetry. I like making deals, preferably big deals. That's how I get my kicks.
Courage is the art of being the only one who knows you're scared to death.
The downfall of the industry seems to actually be good for art. I think the industry will find their way once the focus shifts from its greed-based origins, downsizes, and begins to support creative visions that speak to our times and shifting ideals.
The art of healing comes from nature, not from the physician. Therefore the physician must start from nature, with an open mind.
The new job of art is to sit on the wall and get more expensive.
I am not a great cook, I am not a great artist, but I love art, and I love food, so I am the perfect traveller.
Art must take reality by surprise.
What you have now is a Hollywood that is pure poison. Hollywood was a central place in the history of art in the 20th century: it was human idealism preserved. And then, like any great place, it collapsed, and it collapsed into the most awful machinery in the world.
I have a small house so I borrow everything except art, that's what I love.
I think people should be given a test much like driver's tests as to whether they're capable of being parents! It's an art form. I talk a lot. And I think a lot. And I draw a lot. But never in a million years would I have been a parent. That's just work that's too hard.
I owe much to mother. She had an expert's understanding, but also approached art emotionally.
For me, pointing and clicking my phone is absolutely fine. People say that isn't the art of photography but I don't agree.
Art is the concrete representation of our most subtle feelings.
Wisdom is nothing but a preparation of the soul, a capacity, a secret art of thinking, feeling and breathing thoughts of unity at every moment of life.
For as long as I can remember I have suffered from a deep feeling of anxiety which I have tried to express in my art.
If you cannot learn to love real art at least learn to hate sham art.
The greater the decrease in the social significance of an art form, the sharper the distinction between criticism and enjoyment by the public. The conventional is uncritically enjoyed, and the truly new is criticized with aversion.
Literature flourishes best when it is half a trade and half an art.
Fashion often starts off beautiful and becomes ugly, whereas art starts off ugly sometimes and becomes beautiful.
The art of storytelling is reaching its end because the epic side of truth, wisdom, is dying out.
Art evokes the mystery without which the world would not exist.
What matters poverty? What matters anything to him who is enamoured of our art? Does he not carry in himself every joy and every beauty?
Film is a very young art that is still evolving. Soon, we shall reach a balance between content and technology.
All I owe the world is my art.
Art is dangerous. It is one of the attractions: when it ceases to be dangerous you don't want it.
Aesthetic emotion puts man in a state favorable to the reception of erotic emotion. Art is the accomplice of love. Take love away and there is no longer art.
When the bright angel dominates, out comes a great work of art, a Michelangelo David or a Beethoven symphony.
I like the fact that in ancient Chinese art the great painters always included a deliberate flaw in their work: human creation is never perfect.
I'm not dead and I don't have blue hair but some people say there are similarities. It is usually intolerable to watch myself onscreen but this time it's fine. I think it's beautiful and a real work of art.
More than art, more than literature, music is universally accessible.
I think no artist can claim to have any access to the truth, or an authentic version of an event. But obviously they have slightly better means at their disposal because they have their art to energize whatever it is they're trying to write about. They have music.
Every man should follow the bent of his nature in art and letters, always provided that he does not offend against the rules of morality and good taste.
He has only half learned the art of reading who has not added to it the more refined art of skipping and skimming.
If only life could be a little more tender and art a little more robust.
Seek art from every time and place, in any form, to connect with those who really move you.
Back then, I didn't have a big organization around me. I was just a kid with a guitar, traveling around. My responsibility basically was to the art, and I had extra time on my hands. There is no extra time now. There isn't enough time.
There's no being wrong in seeing something in art, only being disagreed with.
The art of living does not consist in preserving and clinging to a particular mode of happiness, but in allowing happiness to change its form without being disappointed by the change happiness, like a child, must be allowed to grow up.
I think good art does come from a dark place.
I think of art as the highest level of creativity. To me, it is one of the greatest sources of enjoyment.
Literature has drawn a funny perimeter that other art forms haven't.
Reading is an art form, and every man can be an artist.
It is a myth that art has to be sold. It is not like stocking a grocery store where people fill a pushcart. Art is a product that has no apparent need. The salesperson builds the need in the mind of the buyer.
What I'm doing is art - it's low-brow art but there's a magic in that.
Art allows people a way to dream their way out of their struggle.
I just like art. I get pure pleasure from it. I have a lot of wonderful paintings, and every time I look at them I see something different.
I realize that every picture isn't a work of art.
To be honest, I sort of feel like 'movie actor' isn't of this time. I love it. But it's a 20th-century art form.
I view art as an inspirational tool.
What is art but a way of seeing?
Any fool can have bad luck the art consists in knowing how to exploit it.
Good art provides people with a vocabulary about things they can't articulate.
It has taken me years of struggle, hard work and research to learn to make one simple gesture, and I know enough about the art of writing to realize that it would take as many years of concentrated effort to write one simple, beautiful sentence.
Art may imitate life, but life imitates TV.
Celebrity doesn't have anything to do with art or craft. It's about being rich and thinking that you're better than everybody else.
It is commonly supposed that the art of pleasing is a wonderful aid in the pursuit of fortune but the art of being bored is infinitely more successful.
I've sort of escaped my background, as people often do, through art and culture.
It is the glory and good of Art, That Art remains the one way possible Of speaking truth, to mouths like mine at least.
The art of the parenthesis is one of the greatest secrets of eloquence in Society.
The worst state of affairs is when science begins to concern itself with art.
I was the hero of the young insurgent working class art movement.
Thou art my single day, God lends to leaven What were all earth else, with a feel of heaven.
The art of being sick is not the same as the art of getting well.
Poetry is emotion put into measure. The emotion must come by nature, but the measure can be acquired by art.
I'd like to introduce someone who has just come into my life. I've admired him for 35 years. He's someone who represents integrity, honesty, art, and on top of that stuff I'm actually sleeping with him.
An art whose medium is language will always show a high degree of critical creativeness, for speech is itself a critique of life: it names, it characterizes, it passes judgment, in that it creates.
Art is nothing but the expression of our dream the more we surrender to it the closer we get to the inner truth of things, our dream-life, the true life that scorns questions and does not see them.
The art of communication is the language of leadership.
I love to collect modern art.
For nine years I worked to change what was hairdressing then into a geometric art form with color, perm without setting which had never been done before.
I choose films for their artistic value. I don't need a mansion or a Jaguar. When I leave this Earth, I won't take any money with me. All I will leave behind will be my art.
Alchemy is the art of far and near, and I think poetry is alchemy in that way. It's delightful to distort size, to see something that's tiny as though it were vast.
Only in men's imagination does every truth find an effective and undeniable existence. Imagination, not invention, is the supreme master of art as of life.
The idea of avant-garde art is a very suspicious thing to me, the idea that poetry is new and it keeps being new the way Chevrolets every year are new.
Any work that aspires, however humbly, to the condition of art should carry its justification in every line.
When thou art at Rome, do as they do at Rome.
Rock isn't art, it's the way ordinary people talk.
Tell me thy company, and I'll tell thee what thou art.
Book-jacket design may become a lost art, like album-cover design, without which late-20th-century iconography would have been pauperized.
Art is nature speeded up and God slowed down.
There was a big drive when I was at art school to make you aware of the economy of meaning - after all, this was still during the tail end of minimalism. Being responsible for everything you put in your picture, and being able to defend it. Keeping everything clear around you so you know what is operating. To open the wound and keep it clean.
I was very much into buying contemporary art, but I've just decided I want to get rid of it all. Not that it's not great art, but all of a sudden my mood has changed, and I want to go back to seventeenth- and eighteenth-century masters.
I did this Super-8 film at art school called 'Tissues,' this black comedy about a family whose father has been arrested for child molestation. I was absolutely thrilled by every inch of it, and would throw my projector in the back of my car and show it to anybody who would watch it.
The great art of films does not consist of descriptive movement of face and body but in the movements of thought and soul transmitted in a kind of intense isolation.
Magic becomes art when it has nothing to hide.
Science is spectral analysis. Art is light synthesis.
My first love is art, and I see a lot of things in an artistic way.
In my world, history comes down to language and art. No one cares much about what battles were fought, who won them and who lost them - unless there is a painting, a play, a song or a poem that speaks of the event.
A compromise is the art of dividing a cake in such a way that everyone believes he has the biggest piece.
Wushu is a move in Chinese, a physical move. An attack. Wushu is like an art.
If you don't like something, change it. If you can't change it, change your attitude.
Change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle. And so we must straighten our backs and work for our freedom. A man can't ride you unless your back is bent.
God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.
Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek.
You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
For the past 33 years, I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: 'If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?' And whenever the answer has been 'No' for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.
It may be hard for an egg to turn into a bird: it would be a jolly sight harder for it to learn to fly while remaining an egg. We are like eggs at present. And you cannot go on indefinitely being just an ordinary, decent egg. We must be hatched or go bad.
All changes, even the most longed for, have their melancholy for what we leave behind us is a part of ourselves we must die to one life before we can enter another.
I'm not going to change the way I look or the way I feel to conform to anything. I've always been a freak. So I've been a freak all my life and I have to live with that, you know. I'm one of those people.
All great change in America begins at the dinner table.
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.
When we are no longer able to change a situation - we are challenged to change ourselves.
Never believe that a few caring people can't change the world. For, indeed, that's all who ever have.
If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading.
A fanatic is one who can't change his mind and won't change the subject.
To improve is to change to be perfect is to change often.
If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.
If there is no struggle, there is no progress.
Action and reaction, ebb and flow, trial and error, change - this is the rhythm of living. Out of our over-confidence, fear out of our fear, clearer vision, fresh hope. And out of hope, progress.
Any change, even a change for the better, is always accompanied by drawbacks and discomforts.
If we don't change, we don't grow. If we don't grow, we aren't really living.
A small group of thoughtful people could change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.
If there is anything that we wish to change in the child, we should first examine it and see whether it is not something that could better be changed in ourselves.
Things do not change we change.
Always remember that the future comes one day at a time.
Only the wisest and stupidest of men never change.
Progress is a nice word. But change is its motivator. And change has its enemies.
The only way to make sense out of change is to plunge into it, move with it, and join the dance.
Don't change on me. Don't extort me unless you intend to do it forever.
Change in all things is sweet.
Money and success don't change people they merely amplify what is already there.
They must often change, who would be constant in happiness or wisdom.
I can't really change my life to accommodate people who are jealous. I don't see why I should.
All change is not growth, as all movement is not forward.
Because things are the way they are, things will not stay the way they are.
For changes to be of any true value, they've got to be lasting and consistent.
We cannot change anything until we accept it. Condemnation does not liberate, it oppresses.
It's the most unhappy people who most fear change.
He who rejects change is the architect of decay. The only human institution which rejects progress is the cemetery.
Change brings opportunity.
Very often a change of self is needed more than a change of scene.
If you're in a bad situation, don't worry it'll change. If you're in a good situation, don't worry it'll change.
We all have big changes in our lives that are more or less a second chance.
Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be prepared for changes.
There is nothing permanent except change.
If you want to make enemies, try to change something.
Without accepting the fact that everything changes, we cannot find perfect composure. But unfortunately, although it is true, it is difficult for us to accept it. Because we cannot accept the truth of transience, we suffer.
Most people already know what they're doing wrong. When I get them to church I want to tell them that you can change.
Change before you have to.
Change means that what was before wasn't perfect. People want things to be better.
Change will never happen when people lack the ability and courage to see themselves for who they are.
Change alone is eternal, perpetual, immortal.
Loss is nothing else but change, and change is Nature's delight.
One must change one's tactics every ten years if one wishes to maintain one's superiority.
Without change, something sleeps inside us, and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken.
I cannot say whether things will get better if we change what I can say is they must change if they are to get better.
Not only is women's work never done, the definition keeps changing.
One change always leaves the way open for the establishment of others.
He that will not apply new remedies must expect new evils for time is the greatest innovator.
Lord, where we are wrong, make us willing to change where we are right, make us easy to live with.
Our dilemma is that we hate change and love it at the same time what we really want is for things to remain the same but get better.
True life is lived when tiny changes occur.
Change, like sunshine, can be a friend or a foe, a blessing or a curse, a dawn or a dusk.
Relentless, repetitive self talk is what changes our self-image.
Just when I think I have learned the way to live, life changes.
When it becomes more difficult to suffer than to change... you will change.
There are two kinds of fools: those who can't change their opinions and those who won't.
You must welcome change as the rule but not as your ruler.
The first step toward change is awareness. The second step is acceptance.
Change is inevitable. Change is constant.
All I want to do is change the world.
Change is the only constant. Hanging on is the only sin.
Things alter for the worse spontaneously, if they be not altered for the better designedly.
Future shock is the shattering stress and disorientation that we induce in individuals by subjecting them to too much change in too short a time.
In a progressive country change is constant change is inevitable.
You're only as young as the last time you changed your mind.
In times of rapid change, experience could be your worst enemy.
Opinions are made to be changed - or how is truth to be got at?
If you want to change attitudes, start with a change in behavior.
The foolish and the dead alone never change their opinions.
Anyone who thinks there's safety in numbers hasn't looked at the stock market pages.
We live in a moment of history where change is so speeded up that we begin to see the present only when it is already disappearing.
Christians are supposed not merely to endure change, nor even to profit by it, but to cause it.
Change alone is unchanging.
To change what you get you must change who you are.
Just because everything is different doesn't mean anything has changed.
When you are through changing, you are through.
The truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it.
Since we cannot change reality, let us change the eyes which see reality.
The world hates change, yet it is the only thing that has brought progress.
All things must change to something new, to something strange.
A lot of people get impatient with the pace of change.
The world is changing very fast. Big will not beat small anymore. It will be the fast beating the slow.
The thing that lies at the foundation of positive change, the way I see it, is service to a fellow human being.
Change is inevitable. Change for the better is a full-time job.
When you jump for joy, beware that no one moves the ground from beneath your feet.
People change and forget to tell each other.
True change takes place in the imagination.
To change a habit, make a conscious decision, then act out the new behavior.
I don't know if you can change things, but it's a drop in the ocean.
If you want to change the culture, you will have to start by changing the organization.
Change is such hard work.
What we call progress is the exchange of one nuisance for another nuisance.
If you feel like it's difficult to change, you will probably have a harder time succeeding.
The more things change, the more they are the same.
The main dangers in this life are the people who want to change everything... or nothing.
Change is not only likely, it's inevitable.
Could we change our attitude, we should not only see life differently, but life itself would come to be different.
Change occurs in direct proportion to dissatisfaction, but dissatisfaction never changes.
We emphasize that we believe in change because we were born of it, we have lived by it, we prospered and grew great by it. So the status quo has never been our god, and we ask no one else to bow down before it.
The world changes in direct proportion to the number of people willing to be honest about their lives.
If you can change three lives in 10, three lives in a hundred, that's got to be good, hasn't it?
Perfection is immutable. But for things imperfect, change is the way to perfect them.
As with anything creative, change is inevitable.
I try to contrast life today is full of contrast... We have to change.
Everything in life that we really accept undergoes a change.
I shall not change my course because those who assume to be better than I desire it.
Weep not that the world changes - did it keep a stable, changeless state, it were cause indeed to weep.
People want change but not too much change. Finding that balance is tricky for every politician.
Our fathers valued change for the sake of its results we value it in the act.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
Change your thoughts and you change your world.
Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.
If you accept the expectations of others, especially negative ones, then you never will change the outcome.
What we achieve inwardly will change outer reality.
Every great dream begins with a dreamer. Always remember, you have within you the strength, the patience, and the passion to reach for the stars to change the world.
If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.
Change your life today. Don't gamble on the future, act now, without delay.
I can't change the direction of the wind, but I can adjust my sails to always reach my destination.
The pessimist complains about the wind the optimist expects it to change the realist adjusts the sails.
When you forgive, you in no way change the past - but you sure do change the future.
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.
I don't need a friend who changes when I change and who nods when I nod my shadow does that much better.
It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is the most adaptable to change.
We are taught you must blame your father, your sisters, your brothers, the school, the teachers - but never blame yourself. It's never your fault. But it's always your fault, because if you wanted to change you're the one who has got to change.
You change your life by changing your heart.
There are three constants in life... change, choice and principles.
The Chinese government wants me to say that for many centuries Tibet has been part of China. Even if I make that statement, many people would just laugh. And my statement will not change past history. History is history.
If you realize that all things change, there is nothing you will try to hold on to. If you are not afraid of dying, there is nothing you cannot achieve.
You can change your world by changing your words... Remember, death and life are in the power of the tongue.
It behooves every man who values liberty of conscience for himself, to resist invasions of it in the case of others: or their case may, by change of circumstances, become his own.
Chinese people themselves, they really want change.
I am invariably late for appointments - sometimes as much as two hours. I've tried to change my ways but the things that make me late are too strong, and too pleasing.
For time and the world do not stand still. Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future.
Progress is impossible without change, and those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.
You must take personal responsibility. You cannot change the circumstances, the seasons, or the wind, but you can change yourself. That is something you have charge of.
Prayer does not change God, but it changes him who prays.
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new.
It takes a lot of courage to release the familiar and seemingly secure, to embrace the new. But there is no real security in what is no longer meaningful. There is more security in the adventurous and exciting, for in movement there is life, and in change there is power.
Find joy in everything you choose to do. Every job, relationship, home... it's your responsibility to love it, or change it.
If you don't like how things are, change it! You're not a tree.
You are always free to change your mind and choose a different future, or a different past.
The need for change bulldozed a road down the center of my mind.
I believe that you control your destiny, that you can be what you want to be. You can also stop and say, 'No, I won't do it, I won't behave his way anymore. I'm lonely and I need people around me, maybe I have to change my methods of behaving,' and then you do it.
The spirit of democracy is not a mechanical thing to be adjusted by abolition of forms. It requires change of heart.
I have noticed even people who claim everything is predestined, and that we can do nothing to change it, look before they cross the road.
Usually when people are sad, they don't do anything. They just cry over their condition. But when they get angry, they bring about a change.
Intelligence is the ability to adapt to change.
You cannot control what happens to you, but you can control your attitude toward what happens to you, and in that, you will be mastering change rather than allowing it to master you.
You can't move so fast that you try to change the mores faster than people can accept it. That doesn't mean you do nothing, but it means that you do the things that need to be done according to priority.
The only person who is educated is the one who has learned how to learn and change.
No change of circumstances can repair a defect of character.
Forgiving does not erase the bitter past. A healed memory is not a deleted memory. Instead, forgiving what we cannot forget creates a new way to remember. We change the memory of our past into a hope for our future.
Are creeds such simple things like the clothes which a man can change at will and put on at will? Creeds are such for which people live for ages and ages.
What we think determines what happens to us, so if we want to change our lives, we need to stretch our minds.
I hope everyone that is reading this is having a really good day. And if you are not, just know that in every new minute that passes you have an opportunity to change that.
For having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being obliged, by better information or fuller consideration, to change opinions, even on important subjects, which I once thought right but found to be otherwise.
The greatest discovery of all time is that a person can change his future by merely changing his attitude.
Character isn't something you were born with and can't change, like your fingerprints. It's something you weren't born with and must take responsibility for forming.
Wars of nations are fought to change maps. But wars of poverty are fought to map change.
It's time to fundamentally change the way that we do business in Washington. To help build a new foundation for the 21st century, we need to reform our government so that it is more efficient, more transparent, and more creative. That will demand new thinking and a new sense of responsibility for every dollar that is spent.
We can change our lives. We can do, have, and be exactly what we wish.
Win as if you were used to it, lose as if you enjoyed it for a change.
The faults of a superior person are like the sun and moon. They have their faults, and everyone sees them they change and everyone looks up to them.
Every human has four endowments- self awareness, conscience, independent will and creative imagination. These give us the ultimate human freedom... The power to choose, to respond, to change.
But if nothing but soul, or in soul mind, is qualified to count, it is impossible for there to be time unless there is soul, but only that of which time is an attribute, i.e. if change can exist without soul.
We cannot change our past. We can not change the fact that people act in a certain way. We can not change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the one string we have, and that is our attitude.
People can try to reinvent themselves. I don't think you can really change who you are, though, because who you are is pretty much where you came from and what you've done up to now.
I don't think the human mind can comprehend the past and the future. They are both just illusions that can manipulate you into thinking theres some kind of change.
The most difficult thing is the decision to act, the rest is merely tenacity. The fears are paper tigers. You can do anything you decide to do. You can act to change and control your life and the procedure , the process is its own reward.
A man has a tendency to accept you the way you are, while most women immediately start to pick flaws and want to change you.
Failure is not fatal, but failure to change might be.
In times of change learners inherit the earth while the learned find themselves beautifully equipped to deal with a world that no longer exists.
Education doesn't change life much. It just lifts trouble to a higher plane of regard.
Few will have the greatness to bend history itself but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation.
In order to change the world, you have to get your head together first.
Using the power of decision gives you the capacity to get past any excuse to change any and every part of your life in an instant.
Most of the change we think we see in life is due to truths being in and out of favor.
The truth is that we can learn to condition our minds, bodies, and emotions to link pain or pleasure to whatever we choose. By changing what we link pain and pleasure to, we will instantly change our behaviors.
What I learned in jail is that I can't change. I can't live a different lifestyle-this is it. This is the life that they gave and this is the life that I made.
Music can change the world because it can change people.
Most women set out to try to change a man, and when they have changed him they do not like him.
You cannot change your destination overnight, but you can change your direction overnight.
Men make history and not the other way around. In periods where there is no leadership, society stands still. Progress occurs when courageous, skillful leaders seize the opportunity to change things for the better.
The world we see that seems so insane is the result of a belief system that is not working. To perceive the world differently, we must be willing to change our belief system, let the past slip away, expand our sense of now, and dissolve the fear in our minds.
The curious paradox is that when I accept myself just as I am, then I can change.
Time changes everything except something within us which is always surprised by change.
Things don't have to change the world to be important.
We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next ten. Don't let yourself be lulled into inaction.
Sometimes if you want to see a change for the better, you have to take things into your own hands.
Change is the end result of all true learning.
People always fear change. People feared electricity when it was invented, didn't they? People feared coal, they feared gas-powered engines... There will always be ignorance, and ignorance leads to fear. But with time, people will come to accept their silicon masters.
Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what's going to happen next.
One of my favorite philosophical tenets is that people will agree with you only if they already agree with you. You do not change people's minds.
There is the good and the bad, the great and the low, the just and the unjust. I swear to you that all that will never change.
Change your opinions, keep to your principles change your leaves, keep intact your roots.
The joy of life consists in the exercise of one's energies, continual growth, constant change, the enjoyment of every new experience. To stop means simply to die. The eternal mistake of mankind is to set up an attainable ideal.
I never blame myself when I'm not hitting. I just blame the bat and if it keeps up, I change bats. After all, if I know it isn't my fault that I'm not hitting, how can I get mad at myself?
In my early professional years I was asking the question: How can I treat, or cure, or change this person? Now I would phrase the question in this way: How can I provide a relationship which this person may use for his own personal growth?
Complainers change their complaints, but they never reduce the amount of time spent in complaining.
If you believe that feeling bad or worrying long enough will change a past or future event, then you are residing on another planet with a different reality system.
Excess generally causes reaction, and produces a change in the opposite direction, whether it be in the seasons, or in individuals, or in governments.
When you blame others, you give up your power to change.
Whosoever desires constant success must change his conduct with the times.
Ask yourself: Have you been kind today? Make kindness your daily modus operandi and change your world.
There is nothing so stable as change.
I change during the course of a day. I wake and I'm one person, and when I go to sleep I know for certain I'm somebody else.
To change ones life: Start immediately. Do it flamboyantly.
Jealousy is bred in doubts. When those doubts change into certainties, then the passion either ceases or turns absolute madness.
I usually make up my mind about a man in ten seconds, and I very rarely change it.
Change the changeable, accept the unchangeable, and remove yourself from the unacceptable.
No one is in control of your happiness but you therefore, you have the power to change anything about yourself or your life that you want to change.
Change yourself and your work will seem different.
Be content with what you are, and wish not change nor dread your last day, nor long for it.
Gratitude bestows reverence, allowing us to encounter everyday epiphanies, those transcendent moments of awe that change forever how we experience life and the world.
Let me be absolutely clear. Israel is a strong friend of Israel's. It will be a strong friend of Israel's under a McCain administration. It will be a strong friend of Israel's under an Obama administration. So that policy is not going to change.
I don't care whether you're driving a hybrid or an SUV. If you're headed for a cliff, you have to change direction. That's what the American people called for in November, and that's what we intend to deliver.
For the first time in my adult lifetime, I am really proud of my country. And not just because Barack has done well, but because I think people are hungry for change. And I have been desperate to see our country moving in that direction.
I read and walked for miles at night along the beach, writing bad blank verse and searching endlessly for someone wonderful who would step out of the darkness and change my life. It never crossed my mind that that person could be me.
The whole course of human history may depend on a change of heart in one solitary and even humble individual - for it is in the solitary mind and soul of the individual that the battle between good and evil is waged and ultimately won or lost.
If a person doesn't change, there's something really wrong with him.
If any man claims the Negro should be content... let him say he would willingly change the color of his skin and go to live in the Negro section of a large city. Then and only then has he a right to such a claim.
Times and conditions change so rapidly that we must keep our aim constantly focused on the future.
They always say time changes things, but you actually have to change them yourself.
Man seeks to change the foods available in nature to suit his tastes, thereby putting an end to the very essence of life contained in them.
Now we're in the midst of not just advocating for change, not just calling for change - we're doing the grinding, sometimes frustrating work of delivering change - inch by inch, day by day.
Desperation is the raw material of drastic change. Only those who can leave behind everything they have ever believed in can hope to escape.
Artists to my mind are the real architects of change, and not the political legislators who implement change after the fact.
The central conservative truth is that it is culture, not politics, that determines the success of a society. The central liberal truth is that politics can change a culture and save it from itself.
Of course, there is no question that Libya - and the world - will be better off with Gaddafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal, and will actively pursue it through non-military means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.
Observe constantly that all things take place by change, and accustom thyself to consider that the nature of the Universe loves nothing so much as to change the things which are, and to make new things like them.
The universe is change our life is what our thoughts make it.
This is a fantastic time to be entering the business world, because business is going to change more in the next 10 years than it has in the last 50.
We can have no progress without change, whether it be basketball or anything else.
God, give us grace to accept with serenity the things that cannot be changed, courage to change the things which should be changed and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.
In a decaying society, art, if it is truthful, must also reflect decay. And unless it wants to break faith with its social function, art must show the world as changeable. And help to change it.
Science arose from poetry... when times change the two can meet again on a higher level as friends.
Every great and deep difficulty bears in itself its own solution. It forces us to change our thinking in order to find it.
Don't knock the weather nine-tenths of the people couldn't start a conversation if it didn't change once in a while.
I was willing to accept what I couldn't change.
If death meant just leaving the stage long enough to change costume and come back as a new character, would you slow down? Or speed up?
It is often when night looks darkest, it is often before the fever breaks that one senses the gathering momentum for change, when one feels that resurrection of hope in the midst of despair and apathy.
There is no progress whatever. Everything is just the same as it was thousands, and tens of thousands, of years ago. The outward form changes. The essence does not change.
Miracles happen everyday, change your perception of what a miracle is and you'll see them all around you.
This is the America that I love. This is a great people. We can do anything. We can achieve anything. We've got a government that has gotten in the way of the American people. We're going to change that in November.
Constitutions should consist only of general provisions the reason is that they must necessarily be permanent, and that they cannot calculate for the possible change of things.
Instead of giving a politician the keys to the city, it might be better to change the locks.
I wanted to change the world. But I have found that the only thing one can be sure of changing is oneself.
Climate change is a terrible problem, and it absolutely needs to be solved. It deserves to be a huge priority.
Always Do Your Best. Your best is going to change from moment to moment it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse and regret.
We now accept the fact that learning is a lifelong process of keeping abreast of change. And the most pressing task is to teach people how to learn.
The simplest questions are the most profound. Where were you born? Where is your home? Where are you going? What are you doing? Think about these once in a while and watch your answers change.
Early in life I had to choose between honest arrogance and hypocritical humility. I chose the former and have seen no reason to change.
The function of prayer is not to influence God, but rather to change the nature of the one who prays.
What is necessary to change a person is to change his awareness of himself.
Time heals griefs and quarrels, for we change and are no longer the same persons. Neither the offender nor the offended are any more themselves.
Favor comes because for a brief moment in the great space of human change and progress some general human purpose finds in him a satisfactory embodiment.
If I want to knock a story off the front page, I just change my hairstyle.
Only God who made us can touch us and change us and save us from ourselves.
The entrepreneur always searches for change, responds to it, and exploits it as an opportunity.
The challenges of change are always hard. It is important that we begin to unpack those challenges that confront this nation and realize that we each have a role that requires us to change and become more responsible for shaping our own future.
Sometimes it's the smallest decisions that can change your life forever.
My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.
Try to realize it's all within yourself no one else can make you change, and to see you're only very small and life flows on within you and without you.
I think it's naive to pray for world peace if we're not going to change the form in which we live.
Science fiction is any idea that occurs in the head and doesn't exist yet, but soon will, and will change everything for everybody, and nothing will ever be the same again. As soon as you have an idea that changes some small part of the world you are writing science fiction. It is always the art of the possible, never the impossible.
It is absolutely impossible to transcend the laws of nature. What can change in historically different circumstances is only the form in which these laws expose themselves.
No one can persuade another to change. Each of us guards a gate of change that can only be opened from the inside. We cannot open the gate of another, either by argument or emotional appeal.
He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind.
Countries such as the U.S. and Britain have taken it upon themselves to decide for us in the developing world, even to interfere in our domestic affairs and to bring about what they call regime change.
People are always looking for the single magic bullet that will totally change everything. There is no single magic bullet.
Each child is an adventure into a better life - an opportunity to change the old pattern and make it new.
It is change, continuing change, inevitable change, that is the dominant factor in society today. No sensible decision can be made any longer without taking into account not only the world as it is, but the world as it will be.
Why does a woman work ten years to change a man's habits and then complain that he's not the man she married?
We are not victims of aging, sickness and death. These are part of scenery, not the seer, who is immune to any form of change. This seer is the spirit, the expression of eternal being.
A change in the weather is sufficient to recreate the world and ourselves.
We must all obey the great law of change. It is the most powerful law of nature.
Revolution, n. In politics, an abrupt change in the form of misgovernment.
In too many instances, the march to globalization has also meant the marginalization of women and girls. And that must change.
Often times when you face such an overwhelming challenge as global climate change, it can be somewhat daunting - it's kind of like trying to lose weight, which I know something about.
I'm one of those people who thinks that changing one's hair is the only part of the body that you can change at will.
I think music is the greatest art form that exists, and I think people listen to music for different reasons, and it serves different purposes. Some of it is background music, and some of it is things that might affect a person's day, if not their life, or change an attitude. The best songs are the ones that make you feel something.
Dynamism is a function of change.
On some campuses, change is effected through nonviolent or even violent means.
Vision without action is merely a dream. Action without vision just passes the time. Vision with action can change the world.
I am an optimist because I want to change things for the better and I know that blood has to be spilled and disharmony and cruelty are necessary to do that.
It's good for everyone to understand that they are to love their enemies, simply because your enemies show you things about yourself you need to change. So in actuality enemies are friends in reverse.
All conservatism is based upon the idea that if you leave things alone you leave them as they are. But you do not. If you leave a thing alone you leave it to a torrent of change.
Company cultures are like country cultures. Never try to change one. Try, instead, to work with what you've got.
Policies are many, Principles are few, Policies will change, Principles never do.
I don't believe in the after life, although I am bringing a change of underwear.
Isn't life a series of images that change as they repeat themselves?
Forget about the consequences of failure. Failure is only a temporary change in direction to set you straight for your next success.
Man needs, for his happiness, not only the enjoyment of this or that, but hope and enterprise and change.
As a rock star, I have two instincts, I want to have fun, and I want to change the world. I have a chance to do both.
It is evident that skepticism, while it makes no actual change in man, always makes him feel better.
If we go on the way we have, the fault is our greed and if we are not willing to change, we will disappear from the face of the globe, to be replaced by the insect.
The 'self-image' is the key to human personality and human behavior. Change the self image and you change the personality and the behavior.
You are educated. Your certification is in your degree. You may think of it as the ticket to the good life. Let me ask you to think of an alternative. Think of it as your ticket to change the world.
I don't know that love changes. People change. Circumstances change.
A heart well prepared for adversity in bad times hopes, and in good times fears for a change in fortune.
The only difference between me and others is that they think they can change something with cute little poems, nice cards or embracing trees and being nice to little lapdogs.
Since change is constant, you wonder if people crave death because it's the only way they can get anything really finished.
Goals allow you to control the direction of change in your favor.
If you want to know the taste of a pear, you must change the pear by eating it yourself. If you want to know the theory and methods of revolution, you must take part in revolution. All genuine knowledge originates in direct experience.
I think women should start to embrace their age. What's the alternative to getting older? You die. I can't change the day I was born. But I can take care of my skin, my body, my mind, and try to live my life and be happy.
A State without the means of some change is without the means of its conservation.
Those issues are biblical issues: to care for the sick, to feed the hungry, to stand up for the oppressed. I contend that if the evangelical community became more biblical, everything would change.
Happy he who learns to bear what he cannot change.
If you don't change your beliefs, your life will be like this forever. Is that good news?
A great attitude does much more than turn on the lights in our worlds it seems to magically connect us to all sorts of serendipitous opportunities that were somehow absent before the change.
That last day does not bring extinction to us, but change of place.
It becomes more necessary to see the truth as it is if you realize that the only vehicle for change are these people who have lost their personality.
Taste may change, but inclination never.
Heat of blood makes young people change their inclinations often, and habit makes old ones keep to theirs a great while.
Characters do not change. Opinions alter, but characters are only developed.
We say keep your change, we'll keep our God, our guns, our constitution.
If you want to be certain, you should never get married. You should never change jobs. In fact, you might as well just stay home. Because I don't know anybody who is certain. That need to be certain is just procrastination.
Men do change, and change comes like a little wind that ruffles the curtains at dawn, and it comes like the stealthy perfume of wildflowers hidden in the grass.
The great secret that all old people share is that you really haven't changed in seventy or eighty years. Your body changes, but you don't change at all. And that, of course, causes great confusion.
A sense of blessedness comes from a change of heart, not from more blessings.
That sort of half sigh, which, accompanied by two or three slight nods of the head, is pity's small change in general society.
The future is not Big Government. Self-serving politicians. Powerful bureaucrats. This has been tried, tested throughout history. The result has always been disaster. President Obama, your agenda is not new. It's not change, and it's not hope.
Integrity is not a conditional word. It doesn't blow in the wind or change with the weather. It is your inner image of yourself, and if you look in there and see a man who won't cheat, then you know he never will.
My play Safe Sex was picked apart because critics thought it was untrue. It was a play in which no one had AIDS, but the characters talked about how it was going to change their lives.
Civilization exists by geological consent, subject to change without notice.
What looks absolutely fabulous in rehearsal can fall flat in front of an audience. The audience dictates what you do or don't change.
All the principles of heaven and earth are living inside you. Life itself is truth, and this will never change. Everything in heaven and earth breathes. Breath is the thread that ties creation together.
A conception not reducible to the small change of daily experience is like a currency not exchangeable for articles of consumption it is not a symbol, but a fraud.
The Roman Catholic Church isn't going to change its theologies.
People can cry much easier than they can change.
Both tears and sweat are salty, but they render a different result. Tears will get you sympathy sweat will get you change.
I can be almost terminally grief-stricken because things are so dire, but at the same time, there's a real lightheartedness about just the recoverability of life, of how things change, how they're not the same, ever again.
No art can be noble which is incapable of expressing thought, and no art is capable of expressing thought which does not change.
There's no reason to change what you are, but if you're not being you, then you need to acknowledge that.
Excuses change nothing, but make everyone feel better.
Any change is resisted because bureaucrats have a vested interest in the chaos in which they exist.
Know what's weird? Day by day, nothing seems to change. But pretty soon, everything's different.
Growing up going to Christian school and the concept that you're born a sinner and you don't really have a choice to change who you are has been hammered into my head and created the entire reason why I made art and made a band and made records called 'Antichrist Superstar.'
In the long term we can hope that religion will change the nature of man and reduce conflict. But history is not encouraging in this respect. The bloodiest wars in history have been religious wars.
To live is to change, and to be perfect is to have changed often.
In Britain, like most of the developed world, stem-cell research is regarded as a great opportunity. America will be left behind if it doesn't change policy.
I haven't got the slightest idea how to change people, but still I keep a long list of prospective candidates just in case I should ever figure it out.
As life runs on, the road grows strange with faces new - and near the end. The milestones into headstones change, Neath every one a friend.
One of the many things nobody ever tells you about middle age is that it's such a nice change from being young.
Satire doesn't effect change.
There are plenty of problems in the world, and doubtless climate change - or whatever the currently voguish phrase for it all is - certainly is one of them. But it's low on my list.
All change is bad. But sometimes it has to be done.
Such is the state of life, that none are happy but by the anticipation of change: the change itself is nothing when we have made it, the next wish is to change again.
I was married to someone who wanted me to change. Become more adult, more responsible. I began not to like myself, not like what I do. I lost my identity. Everything began collapsing around me.
Exploiting people's emotions of fear, envy and anxiety is not hope, it's not change, it's partisanship. We don't need partisanship. We don't need demagoguery, we need solutions.
Millions of young Americans have graduated from college during the Obama presidency, ready to use their gifts and get moving in life. Half of them can't find the work they studied for, or any work at all. So here's the question: Without a change in leadership, why would the next four years be any different from the last four years?
No matter what people tell you, words and ideas can change the world.
Nothing is so perfectly amusing as a total change of ideas.
The way of the Creative works through change and transformation, so that each thing receives its true nature and destiny and comes into permanent accord with the Great Harmony: this is what furthers and what perseveres.
I still believe that if your aim is to change the world, journalism is a more immediate short-term weapon.
As another has well said, to handicap a student by teaching him that his black face is a curse and that his struggle to change his condition is hopeless is the worst sort of lynching.
The hope and change the Democrats had in mind was nothing more than a retread of the failed and discredited socialist policies that have been the enemy of freedom for centuries all over the world. I fear America is teetering towards tyranny.
As you navigate through the rest of your life, be open to collaboration. Other people and other people's ideas are often better than your own. Find a group of people who challenge and inspire you, spend a lot of time with them, and it will change your life.
Change is certain. Peace is followed by disturbances departure of evil men by their return. Such recurrences should not constitute occasions for sadness but realities for awareness, so that one may be happy in the interim.
As human beings, we are vulnerable to confusing the unprecedented with the improbable. In our everyday experience, if something has never happened before, we are generally safe in assuming it is not going to happen in the future, but the exceptions can kill you and climate change is one of those exceptions.
We have a powerful potential in out youth, and we must have the courage to change old ideas and practices so that we may direct their power toward good ends.
We teach people that they upset themselves. We can't change the past, so we change how people are thinking, feeling and behaving today.
Willingness to change is a strength, even if it means plunging part of the company into total confusion for a while.
Words do not change their meanings so drastically in the course of centuries as, in our minds, names do in the course of a year or two.
Some people change when they think they're a star or something.
To me, eyewear goes way beyond being a prescription. It's like makeup. It's the most incredible accessory. The shape of a frame or the color of lenses can change your whole appearance.
I want to change things for the better, just like everybody else.
Do not let circumstances control you. You change your circumstances.
My greatest challenge has been to change the mindset of people. Mindsets play strange tricks on us. We see things the way our minds have instructed our eyes to see.
Negroes - Sweet and docile, Meek, humble, and kind: Beware the day - They change their mind.
Change of weather is the discourse of fools.
Ah! how annoying that the law doesn't allow a woman to change husbands just as one does shirts.
You know, I don't really do that much looking inside me when I'm working on a project. Whatever I am becomes what that film is. But I change you change.
The thing that lies at the foundation of positive change, the way I see it, is service to a fellow human being.
You don't have to be the Dalai Lama to tell people that life's about change.
I am not trying to change the world. I am just offering my gift that God gave me, and if somebody is moved by it, that's beautiful.
People are starting to go on about my weight but I'm not going to change my size because they don't like the way I look.
But I think talent as a writer is hard-wired in, it's all there, at least the basic elements of it. You can't change it any more than you can choose whether to be right handed or left handed.
There are many things we do not want about the world. Let us not just mourn them. Let us change them.
My notion of a wife at 40 is that a man should be able to change her, like a bank note, for two 20s.
No change in musical style will survive unless it is accompanied by a change in clothing style. Rock is to dress up to.
People got insights into what was bothering them, but they hardly did a damn thing to change.
Change happens by listening and then starting a dialogue with the people who are doing something you don't believe is right.
You can change friends but not neighbours.
We like to think about how smart we are. But I think talent as a writer is hard-wired in, it's all there, at least the basic elements of it. You can't change it any more than you can choose whether to be right handed or left handed.
Ethics and equity and the principles of justice do not change with the calendar.
Swearing is industry language. For as long as we're alive it's not going to change. You've got to be boisterous to get results.
If people don't like me for whatever I do, for being me, then that's too bad. I don't want to change to be something that I'm not for other people to like me.
Strong characters are brought out by change of situation, and gentle ones by permanence.
In America the schools have become too permissive, the kids now are controlling the schools, the tail is wagging the dog. We've got to make a change there and get it back to where the teachers have control of the classrooms.
Hip-hop is supposed to uplift and create, to educate people on a larger level and to make a change.
In a free society, government reflects the soul of its people. If people want change at the top, they will have to live in different ways. Our major social problems are not the cause of our decadence. They are a reflection of it.
We used to think that revolutions are the cause of change. Actually it is the other way around: change prepares the ground for revolution.
Folks, the most insidious part of this whole health care scheme is that all of these vast medical expenditures will become nothing more than government budget items. We individuals will no longer exist. The relationship between a government and citizen will change forever.
We have domesticated God's transcendence. We often learn about God at about the same time as we are learning about Santa Claus but our ideas about Santa Claus change, mature and become more nuanced, whereas our ideas of God can remain at a rather infantile level.
We should learn to accept that change is truly the only thing that's going on always, and learn to ride with it and enjoy it.
We first fought... in the name of religion, then Communism, and now in the name of drugs and terrorism. Our excuses for global domination always change.
Opinions alter, manners change, creeds rise and fall, but the moral laws are written on the table of eternity.
I have always thought that change you can see and feel is best.
I don't think people change. I think they definitely mature. But I think the essence of what I am today is the same as when I was five years old. It's just maturity. I've become a healthier, fuller expression of that essence.
What starts the process, really, are laughs and slights and snubs when you are a kid. If your anger is deep enough and strong enough, you learn that you can change those attitudes by excellence, personal gut performance.
Well I do think, when there are more women, that the tone of the conversation changes, and also the goals of the conversation change. But it doesn't mean that the whole world would be a lot better if it were totally run by women. If you think that, you've forgotten high school.
While the river of life glides along smoothly, it remains the same river only the landscape on either bank seems to change.
Peace of mind comes from not wanting to change others.
Ignorance is always afraid of change.
I'm a Gemini, so I change my mind every day.
I have always argued that change becomes stressful and overwhelming only when you've lost any sense of the constancy of your life. You need firm ground to stand on. From there, you can deal with that change.
Work and struggle and never accept an evil that you can change.
Men may change their climate, but they cannot change their nature. A man that goes out a fool cannot ride or sail himself into common sense.
Americans have so far put up with inequality because they felt they could change their status. They didn't mind others being rich, as long as they had a path to move up as well. The American Dream is all about social mobility in a sense - the idea that anyone can make it.
Change means movement. Movement means friction. Only in the frictionless vacuum of a nonexistent abstract world can movement or change occur without that abrasive friction of conflict.
It is not necessary to change. Survival is not mandatory.
The most useless are those who never change through the years.
Become a student of change. It is the only thing that will remain constant.
Those who visit foreign nations, but associate only with their own country-men, change their climate, but not their customs. They see new meridians, but the same men and with heads as empty as their pockets, return home with traveled bodies, but untravelled minds.
It is proof of a base and low mind for one to wish to think with the masses or majority, merely because the majority is the majority. Truth does not change because it is, or is not, believed by a majority of the people.
Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change.
Habits change into character.
Every daring attempt to make a great change in existing conditions, every lofty vision of new possibilities for the human race, has been labeled Utopian.
Teachers can change lives with just the right mix of chalk and challenges.
You cannot expect to achieve new goals or move beyond your present circumstances unless you change.
I don't believe that if I came out as bisexual the world will change. But it's really important for people to be truthful about who they are and fight for equality. We need to help the world usher itself into the next phase.
It's time to get real, folks. Hope and change ain't working. Hope and change is not a solution. Hope and change is not a job.
As a kid I had buck teeth and braces and acne. I hated what I saw. I'm still not comfortable, but that's why I change and adapt the way I look.
Movies always are open to being remade because times change so much, and the tempo of movies changes. I think of it like a James Bond. They can have different actors play the same role... I've had people come up to me and say, 'We want to remake 'The Jerk' with so and so.' And I say, 'Fine.' It just doesn't bother me. It's an honor actually.
There is no such thing as liberty. You only change one sort of domination for another. All we can do is to choose our master.
Change is not merely necessary to life - it is life.
The range of what we think and do is limited by what we fail to notice. And because we fail to notice that we fail to notice, there is little we can do to change until we notice how failing to notice shapes our thoughts and deeds.
I know that my race must change.
Enjoying success requires the ability to adapt. Only by being open to change will you have a true opportunity to get the most from your talent.
There are things I can't force. I must adjust. There are times when the greatest change needed is a change of my viewpoint.
I was born not knowing and have had only a little time to change that here and there.
It's impossible, I think, however much I'd become disillusioned politically or evolve into a post-political person, I don't think I'd ever change my view that socialism is the best political moment humans have ever come up with.
When you are young and healthy, it never occurs to you that in a single second your whole life could change.
As human beings we do change, grow, adapt, perhaps even learn and become wiser.
Time is neutral and does not change things. With courage and initiative, leaders change things.
Only idiots refuse to change their minds.
You can't stay the same. If you're a musician and a singer, you have to change, that's the way it works.
All is connected... no one thing can change by itself.
For real change, we need feminine energy in the management of the world. We need a critical number of women in positions of power, and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men.
It is quite annoying that we have to change the sound we invented just to avoid sounding like people who simply copy us, but... it is flattering and of course challenging.
I believe we are on an irreversible trend toward more freedom and democracy - but that could change.
Television is like the invention of indoor plumbing. It didn't change people's habits. It just kept them inside the house.
I told you I'm not going to criticize my successor. I'll just tell you that there are people at Gitmo that will kill American people at a drop of a hat and I don't believe that persuasion isn't going to work. Therapy isn't going to cause terrorists to change their mind.
No, I don't regret anything at this point. That may change on the next phone call, but at the moment I don't regret anything.
I went through life like an idiot for a great deal of the time, saying there's nothing I would change. That was a very arrogant thing to say. There's a lot I would change. There are people I would have steered clear of.
Political Correctness doesn't change us, it shuts us up.
There is certain relief in change, even though it be from bad to worse! As I have often found in traveling in a stagecoach, that it is often a comfort to shift one's position, and be bruised in a new place.
I don't care what other people think as long as I am happy. The day I die or retire, I have blown all my chances because I don't have the chance any more to change my image as an F1 driver.
Remember, each one of us has the power to change the world. Just start thinking peace, and the message will spread quicker than you think.
If you're old, don't try to change yourself, change your environment.
The Framers of the Constitution knew that free speech is the friend of change and revolution. But they also knew that it is always the deadliest enemy of tyranny.
People change over the years, and that changes situations for good and for bad.
I don't think that a leader can control, to any great extent, his destiny. Very seldom can he step in and change the situation if the forces of history are running in another direction.
Your best is going to change from moment to moment it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick.
Nothing endures but change.
Time does not change us. It just unfolds us.
If you don't change, then what's the point of anything happening to you?
Human beings are the only animal that thinks they change who they are simply by moving to a different place. Birds migrate, but it's not quite the same thing.
I've seen firsthand that being president doesn't change who you are. It reveals who you are.
It wasn't so long ago that I was a working mom myself. And I know that sometimes, much as we all hate to admit it, it's just easier to park the kids in front of the TV for a few hours, so we can pay the bills or do the laundry or just have some peace and quiet for a change.
Until we totally change the way we elect our leaders, until we remove private money from public campaigns, lying will be the de facto method of governance in this country.
Any revival in which I am involved is liable to change.
Only in growth, reform, and change, paradoxically enough, is true security to be found.
If you never change your mind, why have one?
I think clothes should make you feel safe. I like clothes you want to go to sleep in. I sometimes stand in front of a mirror and change a million times because I know I really want to wear my nightgown.
Actors are agents of change. A film, a piece of theater, a piece of music, or a book can make a difference. It can change the world.
Successful people recognize crisis as a time for change - from lesser to greater, smaller to bigger.
It is not to be expected that human nature will change in a day.
I have accepted fear as a part of life - specifically the fear of change... I have gone ahead despite the pounding in the heart that says: turn back.
I'm not asking any of you to make drastic changes to every single one of your recipes or to totally change the way you do business. But what I am asking is that you consider reformulating your menu in pragmatic and incremental ways to create healthier versions of the foods that we all love.
I am desperate for change - now - not in 8 years or 12 years, but right now.
Everybody talks about wanting to change things and help and fix, but ultimately all you can do is fix yourself. And that's a lot. Because if you can fix yourself, it has a ripple effect.
The democracy process provides for political and social change without violence.
I don't have perfect teeth, I'm not stick thin. I want to be the person who feels great in her body and can say that she loves it and doesn't want to change anything.
I may be a living legend, but that sure don't help when I've got to change a flat tire.
A lot of people resist transition and therefore never allow themselves to enjoy who they are. Embrace the change, no matter what it is once you do, you can learn about the new world you're in and take advantage of it.
I'm doing it because I choose it. And if it's not working, I can make a change.
Today in America, we are trying to prepare students for a high tech world of constant change, but we are doing so by putting them through a school system designed in the early 20th Century that has not seen substantial change in 30 years.
Our generation has an incredible amount of realism, yet at the same time it loves to complain and not really change. Because, if it does change, then it won't have anything to complain about.
A great revolution in just one single individual will help achieve a change in the destiny of a society and, further, will enable a change in the destiny of humankind.
So if one day the result becomes 3-3, for me it doesn't change my mind, because it's football, it's normal. What is not normal is that we haven't been scoring enough goals playing such good football as we've been playing in the last few weeks.
The only sense that is common in the long run, is the sense of change and we all instinctively avoid it.
I do not believe in political movements. I believe in personal movement, that movement of the soul when a man who looks at himself is so ashamed that he tries to make some sort of change - within himself, not on the outside.
No great movement designed to change the world can bear to be laughed at or belittled. Mockery is a rust that corrodes all it touches.
I get satisfaction out of seeing stuff that makes real change in the real world. We need a lot more of that and a lot less abstract stuff.
Under Barack Obama, the only 'Change' is that 'Hope' has been hard to find. Now millions of Americans are insecure about their future. But instead of inspiring us by reminding us of what makes us special, he divides us against each other. He tells Americans they're worse off because others are better off. That people got rich by making others poor.
So here's the question: Without a change in leadership, why would the next four years be any different from the last four years?
Never Have Your Dog Stuffed is really advice to myself, a reminder to myself not to avoid change or uncertainty, but to go with it, to surf into change.
They say marriage will change you but it didn't change me. Being in love changed me.
The earth was made so various, that the mind Of desultory man, studious of change, And pleased with novelty, might be indulged.
I don't like definitions, but if there is a definition of freedom, it would be when you have control over your reality to transform it, to change it, rather than having it imposed upon you. You can't really ask for more than.
I got all the respect in the world for the front-runners in this race, but ask yourself: If we replace a Democratic insider with a Republican insider, you think we're really going to change Washington, D.C.? You don't have to settle for Washington and Wall Street insiders who supported the Wall Street bailout and the Obamacare individual mandate.
While a large segment of the art world has obsessed over a tiny number of stars and their prices, an aesthetic shift has been occurring. It's not a movement - movements are more sure of themselves. It's a change of mood or expectation, a desire for art to be more than showy effects, big numbers, and gamesmanship.
If the Frieze Art Fair catches on, I imagine at least two great things happening. First, we will once again have a huge art fair in town that isn't too annoying to go to. More importantly, Frieze may finally show New Yorkers that we can cross our own waters for visual culture. That would change everything.
We're all entitled to opinions about how art institutions should behave, and entitled to voicing those opinions through whatever means available to us. We're also allowed to change or modify our opinions.
No real social change has ever been brought about without a revolution... revolution is but thought carried into action.
I think the tiniest little thing can change the course of your day, which can change the course of your year, which can change who you are.
I don't know how I got to this point but it must be as a result of everything that has come before so if I were to change something, I might not be at this point now.
If you change partners every time it gets tough or you get a little dissatisfied, then I don't think you get the richness that's available in a long-term relationship.
Yet what you need is not marches, demonstrations, rallies or wide associations, all of them are important. What you need is direct action. The sooner people understand that, the sooner we'll begin to change things.
Sadly, we do a much better job of making people feel guilty than we do of delivering them from the guilt we create. We need to confess this and change our ways.
I wouldn't change anything. I've made mistakes, but thanks to those mistakes, I've learned.
A good marriage is one which allows for change and growth in the individuals and in the way they express their love.
Hope and change? We're not doing that anymore. They're doing attack and blame. And so, I just think people are going to see through this. They want real leadership. They want us to get this country on the right track.
Like it or not, the world evolves, priorities change and so do you.
I never want to change so much that people can't recognize me.
I believe that Gandhi was correct. Non-violent civil disobedience is the only way to bring about change that allows people to enjoy the change and not get killed in the process.
A visit to a cinema is a little outing in itself. It breaks the monotony of an afternoon or evening it gives a change from the surroundings of home, however pleasant.
Resistance is thought transformed into feeling. Change the thought that creates the resistance, and there is no more resistance.
Studies have shown that 90% of error in thinking is due to error in perception. If you can change your perception, you can change your emotion and this can lead to new ideas.
We have got to change our ethics and our financial system and our whole way of understanding the world. It has to be a world in which people live rather than die a sustainable world. It could be great.
It's a philosophy of life. A practice. If you do this, something will change, what will change is that you will change, your life will change, and if you can change you, you can perhaps change the world.
Nothing is as real as a dream. The world can change around you, but your dream will not. Responsibilities need not erase it. Duties need not obscure it. Because the dream is within you, no one can take it away.
It seems to me that any sensible person must see that violence does not change the world and if it does, then only temporarily.
A liberal knows that the only certainty in this life is change but believes that the change can be directed toward a constructive end.
Money is always there but the pockets change it is not in the same pockets after a change, and that is all there is to say about money.
For me, 'revolution' simply means radical change.
To exist is to change, to change is to mature, to mature is to go on creating oneself endlessly.
One of the most predictable things in life is there will be change. You are better off if you can have a say in the change. But you are ignorant or naive if you don't think there will be change, whether you want it to or not.
We're a nation of laws, but the good thing about America, is that laws reside in the people and people can change the laws.
If you take different mythologies from different cultures, the names may change and the story lines may vary but there is always something in common.
Poetry is not only dream and vision it is the skeleton architecture of our lives. It lays the foundations for a future of change, a bridge across our fears of what has never been before.
I wanna change the game in way where I'm not knocking nobody out of the way, not claiming to be the best at this or that, but just doing wonders with the gift I've been given.
The personal things should be left out of platforms at conventions. You can argue yourself blue in the face, and you're not going to change each other's minds. It's a waste of your time and my time.
I am Jose Mourinho and I don't change. I arrive with all my qualities and my defects.
Here I am paying big money to you writers and what for? All you do is change the words.
I am a contradictory mess but I see it as my prerogative to change my mood like the weather.
An Army is a collection of armed men obliged to obey one man. Every change in the rules which impairs the principle weakens the army.
The atmosphere seems to change once the sun goes down and the race fans get to watch a good show.
Thoughts will change and shift just like the wind and the water when you're on the boat thoughts are no different than anything else.
The low points I had all helped make up my character, so I probably wouldn't want to do away with them because I like being flawed and I like having them help me grow and change and become better and stronger.
If you walk down the street and smile at someone, that will get passed on to the next person. That has the power to change someone's day.
It's not the destination that matters. It's the change of scene.
I think most artists would be happy to have bigger audiences rather than smaller ones. It doesn't mean that they are going to change their work in order necessarily to get it, but they're happy if they do get it.
Physics does not change the nature of the world it studies, and no science of behavior can change the essential nature of man, even though both sciences yield technologies with a vast power to manipulate the subject matters.
Don't fear change - embrace it.
As I have said for many years throughout this land, we're borrowing money from China to buy oil from the Persian Gulf to burn it in ways that destroy the future of human civilization. Every bit of that has to change.
Being ready isn't enough you have to be prepared for a promotion or any other significant change.
We should be proud that our Prophet came into the world with the message of Islam to change it for the better, and not for the worse, or to keep things as they are.
This life is a hospital in which every patient is possessed with a desire to change his bed.
Vengeance is not the point change is. But the trouble is that in most people's minds the thought of victory and the thought of punishing the enemy coincide.
For a change, lady luck seemed to be smiling on me. Then again, maybe the fickle wench was just lulling me into a false sense of security while she reached for a rock.
I want to test my maximum and see how much I can do. And I want to change the world of swimming.
Reconciliation requires changes of heart and spirit, as well as social and economic change. It requires symbolic as well as practical action.
If there's specific resistance to women making movies, I just choose to ignore that as an obstacle for two reasons: I can't change my gender, and I refuse to stop making movies.
I can't change overnight into a serious literary author. You can't compare apples to oranges. William Faulkner was a great literary genius. I am not.
I have to try and change the landscape, whatever it is.
It is more rewarding to watch money change the world than watch it accumulate.
We don't change what we are, we change what we think what we are.
As you grow older, you change.
In order to effect great change, we need to look at how we can help those in our own communities as well as globally.
Someday perhaps change will occur when times are ready for it instead of always when it is too late. Someday change will be accepted as life itself.
I just find the evangelical church too, well, restrictive. But the School of Practical Philosophy is nonconfrontational. We believe there are many forms of Scripture. What is true is true and will never change, whether it's in the Bible or in Shakespeare. It's about oneness.
If you asked an 18-year-old what they want to do with their life, and the options are 'Transformers' or Lars von Trier, he's probably shipping out for 'Transformers.' If you ask a 26-year-old what he wants to do, 'Transformers' or Lars von Trier, he'd probably pick Lars von Trier. So, my sensibilities are changing as I change.
If you're unhappy, you should change what you're doing.
There's no sense in going to a tournament if you don't believe that you can win it. And that is the belief I have always had. And that is not going to change.
I take sounds and change them into words.
I think having a child can really change you if you're open to it.
I don't think you can work on feelings in politics, apart from anything else, political change can come very unexpectedly, sometimes overnight when you least expect it.
I came to poetry through the urgent need to denounce injustice, exploitation, humiliation. I know that's not enough to change the world. But to remain silent would have been a kind of intolerable complicity.
Life has got a habit of not standing hitched. You got to ride it like you find it. You got to change with it. If a day goes by that don't change some of your old notions for new ones, that is just about like trying to milk a dead cow.
It's a huge change for your body. You don't even want to look in the mirror after you've had a baby, because your stomach is just hanging there like a Shar-Pei.
I'm very comfortable with how I look. I always have been. I think I look pretty good. There's nothing I want to change. I'm pretty happy with what I've got.
Hope and Change has become Divide and Conquer.
There are pros and cons of experience. A con is that you can't look at the business with a fresh pair of eyes and as objectively as if you were a new CEO. Fire yourself on a Friday night and come in on Monday morning as if a search firm put you there as a turn-around leader. Can you be objective and make the bold change?
Which goes to show you, you can make all the laws you want, but you cannot change people's ways. If you must change them, you have to understand that it will take a long time.
Those people in New York are not gonna change me none.
I spent a lot of my life holding back my cries, and I want to change that because it's not good for me.
The difference between a movie star and a movie actor is this - a movie star will say, 'How can I change the script to suit me?' and a movie actor will say. 'How can I change me to suit the script?'
Well, what was called the blessed hope of the Bible is that one day Jesus Christ would come back again, start a whole new era, that this world order that we know it would change into something that would be wonderful that we'd call the millennium.
You will never change your life until you change something you do daily.
If you've ever made change in the offering plate, you might be a redneck.
The new dynamics between brands and consumers, driven by social media, are proving to be a powerful impetus for change.
The world does not need tourists who ride by in a bus clucking their tongues. The world as it is needs those who will love it enough to change it, with what they have, where they are.
I think sometimes when children grow up, their parents grow up. Mine grew up with me. We coexist. I don't try to change them anymore, and I don't think they try to change me. We agree to disagree.
I love what I do, and when I don't love what I do, I'll make a change.
I've always been ambitious since I was nine years old and that was never going to change.
I think sometimes when children grow up, their parents grow up. Mine grew up with me. We coexist. I don't try to change them anymore, and I don't think they try to change me.
People don't change their behavior unless it makes a difference for them to do so.
We have to do more than just elect a new President if we truly want to change this country.
Logic will never change emotion or perception.
And Seaman, just like a falling oak, manages to change direction.
Certainly, travel is more than the seeing of sights it is a change that goes on, deep and permanent, in the ideas of living.
You don't change the course of history by turning the faces of portraits to the wall.
The customs and fashions of men change like leaves on the bough, some of which go and others come.
Let us take things as we find them: let us not attempt to distort them into what they are not... We cannot make facts. All our wishing cannot change them. We must use them.
Customs and convictions change respectable people are the last to know, or to admit, the change, and the ones most offended by fresh reflections of the facts in the mirror of art.
My goal was never to just create a company. A lot of people misinterpret that, as if I don't care about revenue or profit or any of those things. But what not being just a company means to me is not being just that - building something that actually makes a really big change in the world.
It is time to change our policy of appeasement toward the Palestinians, to strengthen our ties with the nation of Israel.
Our nation is being led astray by ungodly judges, mayors and governors, who are given to change, defying the Constitution and substituting their own wicked agendas.
For the last 20 years of my life, I've had the mantra to do amazing parts with amazing people in amazing projects, so I'm attracted to good story, writing and character and good people. That's what I'm always searching for and I don't think that's ever going to change.
Making money is not gonna change anything about what I am, except I won't answer the door.
I just think that sometimes we hang onto people or relationships long after they've ceased to be of any use to either of you. I'm always meeting new people, and my list of friends seems to change quite a bit.
The only change is that baseball has turned Paige from a second class citizen to a second class immortal.
The idea of the sacred is quite simply one of the most conservative notions in any culture, because it seeks to turn other ideas - uncertainty, progress, change - into crimes.
Cubism was an attack on the perspective that had been known and used for 500 years. It was the first big, big change. It confused people: they said, 'Things don't look like that!'
Economically, it's more expensive to make movies. I hope digital movies change that.
I didn't want to go out and change anything. I just wanted to make the music that was part of my background, which was rock and blues and hip-hop.
I love to watch times change!
It's best to leap into something you know you love. You might change your mind later, but that is the privilege of youth.
I hope to bring much more attention to important issues and change for issues and practices that are harming animals.
Effectively, change is almost impossible without industry-wide collaboration, cooperation and consensus.
What is sure is that technological change is accelerating in all directions and, like children playing in a fountain, consumers are reveling in the experience.
The question remains: which brands will commit to creating a private sector pillar of social change, and which will become casualties of their own outdated thinking?
The creative destruction that social media is currently unleashing will change more than technology or the leader board of the Fortune 100. It is driving a qualitative shift in the nature of relationships between brands and their customers.
It is time for corporate America to become 'the third pillar' of social change in our society, complementing the first two pillars of government and philanthropy. We need the entire private sector to begin committing itself not just to making profits, but to fulfilling higher and larger purposes by contributing to building a better world.
When people align around shared political, social, economic or environmental values, and take collective action, thinking and behavior that compromises the lives of millions of people around the world can truly change.
Brands must empower their community to be change agents in their own right. To that end, they need to take on a mentoring role. This means the brand provides the tools, techniques and strategies for their customers to become more effective marketers in achieving their own goals.
With the never-ending stream of new social technologies, apps and platforms rolling out every day, its easy to get lost in the minutiae of social media. Yet for there to be effective change, especially within large, top-down, hierarchical institutions, a company must have an over-arching understanding of the new role it has to play.
And it's absolutely true that male sexual behaviour and female responses to male demands change a lot when they start communicating - and the levels of the communication that I've seen on the ground in very, very poor areas are so high and I think why don't we have that here?
I have always been aware that you have to get people listening before you can change their minds. Any artist's big fear is being ignored, so if you get debate, that's great.
We think that democracy can change a lot of things, but we're being fooled, because democracy is not the election. We've been taught that democracy is having elections. And it isn't. Elections are the most horrendous aspect of democracy. It's the most mundane, trivial, disappointing, dirty aspect.
Before 'Schindler's List,' I wouldn't have believed movies had a lot of power for social change.
The best thing about acting is that I get to lose myself in another character and actually get paid for it... It's a great outlet. I'm not really sure who I am - it seems I change every day.
I believe that history has shape, order, and meaning that exceptional men, as much as economic forces, produce change and that passe abstractions like beauty, nobility, and greatness have a shifting but continuing validity.
I respect the astute and rigorously unsentimental David Horowitz as one of America's most original and courageous political analysts. He has the true 1960s spirit - audacious and irreverent, yet passionately engaged and committed to social change.
The '80s made up for all the abuse I took during the '70s. I outlived all my critics. By the time I retired, everybody saw me as a venerable institution. Things do change.
I think change is possible, but only for individuals who were never truly gay in the first place and who have a strong personal motivation to recover their heterosexuality.
When you lead change, sometimes you get arrows in your back. I mean, that's just the way the real world is.
An apology might help, but you can change your life without one.
When he was born, I looked at my little boy and felt an unconditional love I never knew was inside me. As he grew, and I watched him stagger about, squeak his first words, and turn into a beautiful little boy, that feeling did not change.
Even if I know I shall never change the masses, never transform anything permanent, all I ask is that the good things also have their place, their refuge.
Mental illness is the last frontier. The gay thing is part of everyday life now on a show like 'Modern Family,' but mental illness is still full of stigma. Maybe it is time for that to change.
I love street style, seeing how girls wear pieces and how their pair accessories with their outfit. How they pair shoes with a bag and go to day to night and change things up.
The only change I can really see is that I don't have to shop for pants in stores anymore.
Obviously comedic styles do change.
Sometimes I have these fantasies of just moving to a foreign country and coming back with a full head of hair. Or not even come back! Make a new life there with hair... Change my name, just see what happens.
Anyone who's lost someone to cancer will say this, that you have to struggle to try to remember the person before the diagnosis happened, because they really do change - as anyone would change.
We are volcanoes. When we women offer our experience as our truth, as human truth, all the maps change. There are new mountains.
Change is vital, improvement the logical form of change.
Rather than saying, 'My checking account is a wreck,' change it to 'I will learn how to track my spending and balance my checkbook.'
I mean, if you didn't get it or if you didn't feel like you enjoyed it, sometimes that experience can change.
It took me so many years to move out. I'm definitely a bit of a Peter Pan, reluctant to grow up. It all seemed really nice at home-why change it? Part of me would prefer not to have any responsibility whatsoever.
I have to struggle to change people's perceptions of me. I grew very frustrated with the perception that I'm this shy, retiring, inhibited aristocratic creature when I'm absolutely not like that at all. I think I'm much more outgoing and exuberant than my image.
To some extent, Seattle remains a frontier metropolis, a place where people can experiment with their lives, and change and grow and make things happen.
I change my mind so much I need two boyfriends and a girlfriend.
Don't manage - lead change before you have to.
Probably the most visible example of unintended consequences, is what happens every time humans try to change the natural ecology of a place.
Everything will change. The only question is growing up or decaying.
One good teacher in a lifetime may sometimes change a delinquent into a solid citizen.
A technical solution may be defined as one that requires a change only in the techniques of the natural sciences, demanding little or nothing in the way of change in human values or ideas of morality.
You put high heels on and you change.
I mean, language fascinates me anyway, and different words have different energies and you can change the whole drive of a sentence.
The art of living does not consist in preserving and clinging to a particular mode of happiness, but in allowing happiness to change its form without being disappointed by the change happiness, like a child, must be allowed to grow up.
One reason we resist making deliberate choices is that choice equals change and most of us, feeling the world is unpredictable enough, try to minimise the trauma of change in our personal lives.
That man is a creature who needs order yet yearns for change is the creative contradiction at the heart of the laws which structure his conformity and define his deviancy.
We're not trying to change the world just music.
I feel we live in the kind of culture now where you have to be very smart to navigate the right way, and I just don't have those smarts. I think with age and time it will change, but I can't obsess about it.
I wouldn't change a single thing, because one change alters every moment that follows it.
The first resistance to social change is to say it's not necessary.
Our economic system, run for profit and waste and based primarily on the extractive industries, is the cause of climate change. We have wasted the earth's treasure and we can no longer exploit it cheaply.
You can love more than one person in your life, but things will be different. There'll be a different dynamic. Needs and desires change.
Excellent firms don't believe in excellence - only in constant improvement and constant change.
I don't have clear-cut positions. I get baffled by things. I have viewpoints. Sometimes they change.
Change of fashion is the tax levied by the industry of the poor on the vanity of the rich.
Creative thinking inspires ideas. Ideas inspire change.
I think it true that, you know, sometimes things start to change even before a government changes and, actually, I think you can begin to see even the Labour machine beginning to understand that it has become over-reliant on targets and processes, that local governments have been over-bossed and bullied.
We have the character of an island nation: independent, forthright, passionate in defence of our sovereignty. We can no more change this British sensibility than we can drain the English Channel. And because of this sensibility, we come to the European Union with a frame of mind that is more practical than emotional.
The biggest danger to the European Union comes not from those who advocate change, but from those who denounce new thinking as heresy. In its long history Europe has experience of heretics who turned out to have a point.
One new feature or fresh take can change everything.
I've had some movies that have been ridiculed, but that's OK with me. I don't feel that really defines me. Should I change who I am to be popular?
If we are to change our world view, images have to change. The artist now has a very important job to do. He's not a little peripheral figure entertaining rich people, he's really needed.
The ultimate end of all revolutionary social change is to establish the sanctity of human life, the dignity of man, the right of every human being to liberty and well-being.
The challenge is not to replace Obama but with who. It's not enough to just change up the uniform, if we don't change the team and the game plan, we won't save our country.
Your race and gender don't change, but you can choose to change your political affiliation at will.
Pop culture is a reflection of social change, not a cause of social change.
All non-incumbent campaigns promise hope and change, but Obama took the promise to a new level of absurdity. He suggested that a vote for him would literally transform the Earth.
Many individuals are doing what they can. But real success can only come if there is a change in our societies and in our economics and in our politics.
Success cannot come from standstill men. Methods change and men must change with them.
The Philippines is a terrible name, coming from Spain. Phillip II was the father of the inquisition, who I believe died of syphilis. It is my great regret that we didn't change the name of our country.
No matter how many modern parts I do, people still refer to me as Mrs. Costume Drama. Fight Club is a studio pic, and I've done very few of those. I've got a feeling it's going to change things for me.
I ran for president in order to be able to try to change Washington D.C. from the inside. Our federal government is broken.
It's been really fun to see with each album when I change to see the fans of the show emulate my style and with the first record a lot of the kids in the crowd were wearing neck ties like I was and now you'll see a lot of girls with pink hair. It's cool, it's actually really neat.
When fish experience something that would cause other animals physical pain, they behave in ways suggestive of pain, and the change in behaviour may last several hours.
I learned to change my accent in England, your accent identifies you very strongly with a class, and I did not want to be held back.
Some say that I should settle down, go slower and not push so hard, so quickly for such transformational change. To them, I say that you misunderstand the size of the problems we face, the strength of the status quo and the urgency of the people's desire for change.
I absolutely don't care about my looks and I'm so used to them that I wouldn't change a thing. I would end up missing my defects.
Maybe we all change over time.
I just want people to know that if they want to change the direction of the country, they can do it, but only if they're active, informed, and engaged.
Some people seem to understand this - that life and change take time - but I am not one of those people.
I think I'm actually quite a materialistic person, I value what it takes to make a car or build a nice house. Money does change things, but how it changes people depends on how they react to it.
I have a big fear of change, or negative change, anyway. I'm basically the same person I was when I won 'Idol,' or when I was 10.
I don't think my principles change. I think the way in which you apply those principles to modern society changes.
You change with the guys you date.
If a person with a bullet in Dallas can change the world, imagine a person with an idea could do.
If a man like Malcolm X could change and repudiate racism, if I myself and other former Muslims can change, if young whites can change, then there is hope for America.
Human memory is a marvelous but fallacious instrument. The memories which lie within us are not carved in stone not only do they tend to become erased as the years go by, but often they change, or even increase by incorporating extraneous features.
It is well for people who think to change their minds occasionally in order to keep them clean. For those who do not think, it is best at least to rearrange their prejudices once in a while.
People with high blood pressure, diabetes - those are conditions brought about by life style. If you change the life style, those conditions will leave.
I was away from the front lines for a while this spring, living with other troops, and considerable fighting took place while I was gone. When I got ready to return to my old friends at the front I wondered if I would sense any change in them.
I just don't believe that you have to come in and insult people when you want to change things.
One expected growth, change without it, the world was less, the well of inspiration dried up, the muses fled.
Choose your corner, pick away at it carefully, intensely and to the best of your ability and that way you might change the world.
You look at a herd of cattle and well, they all look the same... but they know. They all have an individual personality, and those personalities change from day to day. They can have their grumpy days and their happy days and their serene days. But it's unpredictable. You can't be off in outer space when you're dealing with animals.
There has been a change in men's attitudes toward their clothes. Men are more aware of fashion they're not afraid of it.
I just like food too much, and I don't want to change. I spent so much of childhood trying to change, and I just got sick of it... I don't want to look like Britney Spears, I just don't want to. She's hideous.
I would not change my blest estate for all the world calls good or great.
Girls are taught to sing high and pretty, like Antony, not low and from the guts like Nina Simone. But we're slowly trying to change that. There are so many things we're not told growing up, and it's our true feminist responsibility to take the truth to the people who need to hear it.
Politics is repetition. It is not change. Change is something beyond what we call politics. Change is the essence politics is supposed to be the means to bring into being.
If we don't like what the Republicans do, we need to get in there and change it.
Whether you're winning or losing, it is important to always be yourself. You can't change because of the circumstances around you.
I'm trying to change the culture in New York City that's hard enough!
Set lists are tough because you come up with this structure of how the songs are going to go from one to the next, but at the same time, you have to be spontaneous and take requests and change the set list at the drop of a hat.
The greatest revolution in our generation is that of human beings, who by changing the inner attitudes of their minds, can change the outer aspects of their lives.
I have found there are four steps to change. 1. You must want it. 2. You must believe it. 3. You must live it. 4. You will become it.
It is in the mind and the heart where we meet. It's not the body-the body will change.
Many people and governments share the mistaken belief that science, with new, ingenious devices and techniques, can rescue us from the troubles we face without our having to mend our ways and change our patterns of activity. This is not so.
As man sows, so shall he reap. In works of fiction, such men are sometimes converted. More often, in real life, they do not change their natures until they are converted into dust.
Comedians walk out, get a feel for the crowd. If it's not going good, we change directions. If we got to drag your momma into this thing, we will. Whatever we got to do.
Believe it or not, lots of people change their majors and abandon their dreams just to avoid a couple of math classes in college.
I didn't think that college math was for me. I didn't think I'd be able to hack it. And that perception of math not being for girls, not being for girls who see themselves as socially well adjusted has got to change.
I like to change characters and then, slowly I believe the audience treat me as, like an actor who can fight. It's not like an action star.
The signs of outstanding leadership appear primarily among the followers. Are the followers reaching their potential? Are they learning? Serving? Do they achieve the required results? Do they change with grace? Manage conflict?
I'm a typical middle child. I'm the mediator. The one that makes everything OK, puts their own needs aside to make sure everybody's happy. It's hard to change your nature, even with years and years of therapy.
I really think the Patriot Act violates our Constitution. It was, it is, an illegal act. The Congress, the Senate and the president cannot change the Constitution.
If the shoe doesn't fit, must we change the foot?
Unless it's a specific accent, or something about physicality you have to change, I am generally not such a conscious actor.
The more specific idea of Evolution now reached is - a change from an indefinite, incoherent homogeneity to a definite, coherent heterogeneity, accompanying the dissipation of motion and integration of matter.
In science the important thing is to modify and change one's ideas as science advances.
The notion that Congress can change the meaning given a constitutional provision by the Court is subversive of the function of judicial review and it is not the less so because the Court promises to allow it only when the Constitution is moved to the left.
What is amazing for a woman of my age is that I change as the world is changing-and changing very, very fast. I don't think my mother had that opportunity to change.
We're living in an era of unprecedented change, and I want to be a part of documenting it.
Climate change was a point of division between Obama and Republican rival Mitt Romney. The president declared climate change a global threat, acknowledged that the actions of humanity were deepening the crisis, and pledged to do something about it if elected.
Close elections tend to break toward the challenger because undecided voters - having held out so long against the incumbent - are by nature looking for change.
Obama won the presidency on the strength of his message and the skills of the messenger. Now the talk of hope and change feels out of tune when so many Americans are out of work, over-mortgaged, and worried that life will be even tougher for their children.
We, the people. Manifest Destiny. Conceived in liberty. Fear itself. Ask not. Morning in America. United we stand. Yes, we can. In times of great change and tumult, presidents seek to inspire beleaguered Americans by reminding them of their national identity.
Instead of focusing on that circumstances that you cannot change - focus strongly and powerfully on the circumstances that you can.
I think the way to change it is to handle issues individually when it's essential to do so.
I used to be a Catholic. I left because I object to conversion by concussion. If you don't agree with what they teach, you get clobbered over the head until you do. All that does is change the shape of the head.
If I was a woman, I would be dressed in the same thing for a month and just change my hat and gloves. Maybe my shoes too yes, I see what you mean but, really, it's jewels that change an outfit.
I like progress but I hate change.
All cities do face similar, significant trends in the future... most importantly global warming and climate change.
A dog that has rabies probably will do things it wouldn't do if it didn't have rabies. But that doesn't change the fact that it has rabies.
Because primarily of the power of the Internet, people of modest means can band together and amass vast sums of money that can change the world for some public good if they all agree.
One of the advantages of moving quickly is if you do something wrong you can change it. What technologies tend to do is they tend to make a lot of mistakes... but then we go back and aggressively attack those mistakes - and fix them. And you usually recover pretty quickly.
I love change, I need it.
Cats don't like change without their consent.
One of the most important things to remember about infant care is: don't change diapers in midstream.
I like change. There's something Buddhist about it - continuous change is wonderful.
Man can certainly flee from God... but he cannot escape him. He can certainly hate God and be hateful to God, but he cannot change into its opposite the eternal love of God which triumphs even in his hate.
It's quite nice to see that I didn't have to change who I was to reach two very different types of people.
People find themselves in ruts all the time. You're in a complacent lifestyle where you work 9 to 5 and then you add a mortgage and kids. You feel trapped, but guess what, brother? You constructed that life. If you're OK with it, there's nothing wrong with that. But if you've got unease, then you've got to make a change.
Many a revolution started with the actions of a few. Only 56 men signed the Declaration of Independence. A few hanging together can lead a nation to change.
Few expected very much of Franklin Roosevelt on Inauguration Day in 1933. Like Barack Obama seventy-six years later, he was succeeding a failed Republican president, and Americans had voted for change. What that change might be Roosevelt never clearly said, probably because he himself didn't know.
Women have a lot of power in private life. There are many men who would say, 'Hey, women already rule my life.' But with women, more is more. The more there are, the more the world gets used to seeing them. We change the culture. We begin to expand options and lead and manage.
The fight is always the same within the Democratic Party, isn't it? The more things change, the more they stay the same.
Washington is still very much a male-oriented culture. Being from Los Angeles, I think it is less so there - there is less attachment to tradition, perhaps, there is more flexibility, more acceptance of change generally. That is partly because of Hollywood.
When I joined Bill Clinton's start-up presidential campaign in 1991, I was confident that women would play an ever more important role, but I never gave a minute's thought to what would happen if we won. When we did - and I became the first woman to serve as White House press secretary - it changed my life. But it didn't change the world.
There is no question that climate change is happening the only arguable point is what part humans are playing in it.
As a standup, I try to change the world. As an entertainer, I try to entertain. And as a lesbian, I try to pick up the prettiest girl in the room.
It's coming home to roost over the next 50 years or so. It's not just climate change it's sheer space, places to grow food for this enormous horde. Either we limit our population growth or the natural world will do it for us, and the natural world is doing it for us right now.
Every time I hear, Cut. Print, something cold and electrical goes off in my head, because I'm never going to change that film.
Revolutions demand enormous sacrifices and, at the same time, create a new need to change the world again.
The past itself, as historical change continues to accelerate, has become the most surreal of subjects - making it possible... to see a new beauty in what is vanishing.
Dreams are the seeds of change. Nothing ever grows without a seed, and nothing ever changes without a dream.
For an introvert his environment is himself and can never be subject to startling or unforeseen change.
Change is vital to any actor. If you keep playing lead after lead, you're really gonna dry up. Because all those vehicles wean you away from the truths of human behaviour.
There are people in the world who have the power to change our values.
Without struggle, no progress and no result. Every breaking of habit produces a change in the machine.
We can't change anything until we get some fresh ideas, until we begin to see things differently.
Becoming a mother cannot help but change things. An author's life is reflected in their writing, whether they want it to be or not, and parenthood is one of the biggest life changes there is.
Loss means losing what was We want to change but we don't want to lose. Without time for loss, we don't have time for soul.
A change in bad habits leads to a change in life.
It will always be a battle a day between those who want maximum change and those who want to maintain the status quo.
Organisations are now confronted with two sources of change: the traditional type that is initiated and managed and external changes over which no one has control.
Never doubt that you can change history. You already have.
I just change with the times. I really don't have a say in what's going on. Music was here before me.
We have to struggle against the conservatives from all sides, not only the right-wingers, but also the left-wing conservatives who don't want to change anything.
Change is growth. For me it has been a very spiritual and musical rebirth.
I have a resistance to change in things that I feel comfortable with and that I'm used to.
I can't just say one time of the year I'm going to do something different. I have to commit to a lifestyle behavioral change and just try to be a little bit better today than I was yesterday.
If we're going to change the laws, let's change them in ways which makes it easier to catch criminals, and yet at the same time protect the Second Amendment rights of our law-abiding citizens.
Fame changes a lot of things, but it can't change a lightbulb.
Sometimes you could be in an unhappy relationship you are very much in love with someone, but it's making you unhappy and you think things can change and you can work it out.
I have to say, you know, I've seen so many people go through the cycle and become famous and not famous anymore and, you know, want - have their priorities change and want different things.
We have to face the reality of climate change. It is arguably the biggest threat we are facing today.
Any form of art is a form of power it has impact, it can affect change - it can not only move us, it makes us move.
Unless there is meaningful change in Syria and an end to the crackdown, President Assad and those around him will find themselves isolated internationally and discredited within Syria.
People feel that the EU is a one-way process, a great machine that sucks up decision-making from national parliaments to the European level until everything is decided by the EU. That needs to change.
I believe we should reframe our response to climate change as an imperative for growth rather than merely being a way of being green or meeting environmental commitments.
As far as I'm aware, everybody in the shadow cabinet accepts that there's a compelling case on climate change and a strong scientific case.
It's important to fall in love with someone you don't want to change.
I do believe sadly it's going to take some diseases coming back to realize that we need to change and develop vaccines that are safe.
I get heartfelt thanks from all kinds of people. Today I heard from a waitress in Georgia who has lost her job and is trying to figure out how her local bank can change the terms on her credit card, and I heard from a physicist at a major research university who wants to explain a better theory of financial stress tests.
People's view of cancer will change when they have their own relationship with cancer, which everyone will, at some point.
I want to be able to look back and say, 'I've done everything I can, and I was successful.' I don't want to look back and say I should have done this or that. I'd like to change things for the younger generation of swimmers coming along.
I wouldn't change a thing - except my bank balance.
No, nothing has changed in my life at all, and nothing would change if I had millions.
There is something in the pang of change More than the heart can bear, Unhappiness remembering happiness.
This great, though disastrous, culture can only change as we begin to stand off and see... the inveterate materialism which has become the model for cultures around the world.
There can be no peace in the world so long as a large proportion of the population lack the necessities of life and believe that a change of the political and economic system will make them available. World peace must be based on world plenty.
That's the thing about interviews, at some point you're going to change your mind. But it's there forever and you can't escape it.
Man has a limited biological capacity for change. When this capacity is overwhelmed, the capacity is in future shock.
Some argue that now isn't the time to push the green agenda - that all efforts should be on preventing a serious recession. That is a false choice. It fails to recognise that climate change and our carbon reliance is part of problem - high fuel prices and food shortages due to poor crop yields compound today's financial difficulties.
It is tragic that people who are incarcerated are unable to vote. They are probably the most important voices to listen to because they can tell us what we need to change.
It is not strange... to mistake change for progress.
A zebra does not change its spots.
I think it's harder for people than it should be. But as more and more of us become carbon neutral and change the patterns in our lives to be part of the solution instead of part of the problem, we are now beginning to see the changes in policy that are needed.
Kids are a huge sacrifice they change everything - but I'm ready to work for things of greater importance than going out to meet someone for dinner at 10 o'clock at night.
I do like change. That's the one thing exciting about me.
If I can change than anyone can change. I promise you that.
The art of progress is to preserve order amid change and to preserve change amid order.
I shoot a little bit, maybe two rolls, medium format, which is 20 pictures, and if it's not working, I change the position.
I think if there's something one needs to change with oneself, it doesn't have to happen in the New Year. You can do that any time you please - not that it's not a good inspirational tactic for the people that it works for.
Even God cannot change the past.
Men are but children of a larger growth, Our appetites as apt to change as theirs, And full as craving too, and full as vain.
I didn't come into politics to change the Labour Party. I came into politics to change the country.
When you go off in the world and make your life, and you come back to your home town, and you find your old high-school friends driving in the same circles, doing the same things, that's what Hollywood's like. It's a little block, little town. It doesn't really grow or change.
Maybe one day the world will change, that we'll be in a luxurious position of being able to debate whether or not it's inherently wrong to eat animals, but the question doesn't matter right now.
Polite and velvety leaders, who take care to avoid bruising others, are generally not as effective at forcing change.
When it comes to meat, change is almost always cast as an absolute. You are a vegetarian or you are not.
Celebrity culture has gone crazy, and I think the reason is that real news is just not bearable, and it also seems impossible to change anything.
The question, I've come to think, is not what inspires one to change, but what inspires one to remain changed.
I first became a vegetarian when I was nine, in response to an argument made by a radical babysitter. My great change - which lasted a couple of weeks - was based on the very simple instinct that it's wrong to kill animals for food.
Despite the fact that in America we incarcerate more juveniles for life terms than in any other country in the world, the truth is that the vast majority of youth offenders will one day be released. The question is simple and stark. Do we want to help them change or do we want to help them become even more violent and dangerous?
There is at least one point in the history of any company when you have to change dramatically to rise to the next level of performance. Miss that moment - and you start to decline.
In one century, we've added 28 years to our average life span - a change so rapid that our brains couldn't possibly have evolved to accommodate it.
My point is that perceptual bias can affect nut jobs and scientists alike. If we hold too rigidly to what we think we know, we ignore or avoid evidence of anything that might change our mind.
When you're a catalyst for change, you make enemies - and I'm proud of the ones I've got.
Any film I do is not going to change the way black women have been portrayed, or black people have been portrayed, in cinema since the days of D.W. Griffith.
Normal social behavior requires that we be able to recognize identities in spite of change. Unless we can do so, there can be no human society as we know it.
When you look at all the miracles attributed to Jesus, they're all about change.
The damage that climate change is causing and that will get worse if we fail to act goes beyond the hundreds of thousands of lives, homes and businesses lost, ecosystems destroyed, species driven to extinction, infrastructure smashed and people inconvenienced.
When I was at drama school, I wanted to change the world, and thought I had some great wisdom to impart to people about humanity. Now that I'm older, I know enough to realise that I know nothing at all.
Doing all we can to combat climate change comes with numerous benefits, from reducing pollution and associated health care costs to strengthening and diversifying the economy by shifting to renewable energy, among other measures.
From year to year, environmental changes are incremental and often barely register in our lives, but from evolutionary or geological perspectives, what is happening is explosive change.
People can undergo a sudden change of thinking and loyalties under threat of death or intense social pressure and isolation from friends and family.
Some people call it global warming some people call it climate change. What is the difference?
In true dialogue, both sides are willing to change.
I don't allow anybody to change me. I still walk outta my house in rollers and I take walks. I do not care what people think.
This nation has always struggled with how it was going to deal with poor people and people of color. Every few years you will see some great change in the way that they approach this. We've had the war on poverty that never really got into waging a real war on poverty.
I don't think I'm really open to having Washington change me.
We are all revolutionaries now, addicts of change.
My mom was always saying: 'Be whatever you want to be, but stick with it. Don't waver. Don't change who you are for anybody.'
People naturally change a lot during their 20s, so my songs reflect that progression.
People lose people, we lose things in our life as we're constantly growing and changing. That's what life is is change, and a lot of that is loss. It's what you gain from that loss that makes life.
I think happiness comes from self-acceptance. We all try different things, and we find some comfortable sense of who we are. We look at our parents and learn and grow and move on. We change.
Illness strikes men when they are exposed to change.
Change is one of my favourite words.
I have to change a lot of things before I become a good marathon runner.
I am a type-2 diabetic, and they took me off medication simply because I ate right and exercised. Diabetes is not like a cancer, where you go in for chemo and radiation. You can change a lot through a basic changing of habits.
Redemption just means you just make a change in your life and you try to do right, versus what you were doing, which was wrong.
You have a dramatic portion of your television program and you treat it dramatically, and then you have a comedic portion of your program, and you treat it differently. Why do you change who are between the two pieces? You're the same person. Just go.
There is danger in reckless change, but greater danger in blind conservatism.
Bill Gates is a relative newcomer to the fight against global warming, but he's already shifting the debate over climate change.
If left unchecked, global change will create violent conflict, torrential storms, shrinking coastlines, and irreversible catastrophe.
Among all the tests President Obama faced in his first term, his biggest failure was climate change.
We have to raise the consciousness the only way poets can change the world is to raise the consciousness of the general populace.
Geoengineering - the deliberate, large-scale manipulation of the earth's climate to offset global warming - is a nightmare fix for climate change.
Sometimes we look for those thunderous things to happen in our life for our lives to change or go in the other direction. We seek the miracle. We seek the parting of the seas, the moving of the mountains. But no, it's a quiet thing. At least for me it was.
"If you are interested enough in the climate crisis to read this post, you probably know that 2 degrees Centigrade of warming (or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) is the widely acknowledged threshold for ""dangerous"" climate change."
Climate change is a global issue - from the point of view of the Earth's climate, a molecule of CO2 emitted in Bejing is the same as a molecule emitted in Sydney.
What's certain is that a totalitarian enclave like Cuba's can't continue to exist, so change will definitely come there, eventually.
Every day I'm thinking about change.
Ever since the collapse of cap and trade legislation and the realization that President Obama is unlikely to ever utter the words 'climate change' in public again, much less use the bully pulpit to prepare the nation for the catastrophic risks of inaction, the movement has been in a funk.
I mean, I think we're put here on earth to make your own destiny, to begin with. I don't think there's anything you can do this way or that way to change anything.
Maybe more climate activists will think about the climate change not as an international problem to be resolved in an air-conditioned meeting hall, but as a guerilla war to be fought in the streets.
I don't think the Palestinian people or Afghan children or some other things I'm concerned about are at the top of other people's agendas - not right now, when America is going through such a recession and people are suffering across the board financially. But I think all that will change.
One of the big questions in the climate change debate: Are humans any smarter than frogs in a pot? If you put a frog in a pot and slowly turn up the heat, it won't jump out. Instead, it will enjoy the nice warm bath until it is cooked to death. We humans seem to be doing pretty much the same thing.
I've always looked the same. Since I was a child, I hated having to deal with my hair. I hated having to change my clothes. As a kid, I had a sailor shirt and the same old corduroy pants, and that's what I wanted to wear everyday.
You may not be able to change a situation, but with humor you can change your attitude about it.
When the fabric of society is so rigid that it cannot change quickly enough, adjustments are achieved by social unrest and revolutions.
President Obama's version of America is a divided one - pitting us against each other based on our income level, gender, and social status. His policies have failed! We are not better off than we were 4 years ago, and no rhetoric, bumper sticker, or campaign ad can change that.
The experience of being in space didn't change my perspective of myself or of the planet or of life. I had no spiritual experience.
Sureness is something like a neck brace, which we clamp around our lives, hoping to somehow protect ourselves from the frightening, constant whiplash of change. Sadly, the brace doesn't always hold.
As somebody who, in my second marriage, insisted on a prenuptial agreement, I can also testify that sometimes it is an act of love to chart the exit strategy before you enter the union, in order to make sure that not only you, but your partner as well, knows that there will be no World War III should hearts and minds, for any sad reason, change.
In politics there are some candidates who use change to promote their careers, and then there are those like John McCain who use their careers to promote change.
If you want to change the way your banking system is regulated, if you want to learn the mistakes of what's gone wrong, then you have to change your government.
Even before he came to power in 1997, Gordon Brown promised to change the accounts to parliament from simple litanies of cash in and cash out, to a more commercial system that took notice of the public property the departments were using. This system is known as resource accounting.
I know how bad Albany is. I know it better than most. I understand why people are angry. I'm angry. The question is going to be, how do you change Albany, what is the plan for change, and then how do you actually get it done?
Only I can change my life. No one can do it for me.
News reports don't change the world. Only facts change it, and those have already happened when we get the news.
One of the things I like enormously about Bob Weinstein is that that he's the only studio head I have ever known who will change his mind and say he was wrong.
You know, for 300 years it's been kind of the same. There are restaurants in New Orleans that the menu hasn't changed in 125 years, so how is one going to change or evolve the food?
There are women who make things better, there are women who change things, there are women who make things happen, who make a difference. I want to be one of those women.
The politicians always told us that the Cold War stand-off could only change by way of nuclear war. None of them believed that such systemic change was possible.
Geological change usually takes thousands of years to happen but we are seeing the climate changing not just in our lifetimes but also year by year.
I don't think we're yet evolved to the point where we're clever enough to handle a complex a situation as climate change. The inertia of humans is so huge that you can't really do anything meaningful.
The only thing I fear more than change is no change. The business of being static makes me nuts.
The problem with being sure that God is on your side is that you can't change your mind, because God sure isn't going to change His.
I don't think anything changes until ideas change. The usual American viewpoint is to believe that something is wrong with the person.
If you actually want to change your world, there is a better way of doing it than blowing yourself up.
You have to come in and be that character when you walk into the room. That's what one of my first acting teachers taught me. You know, don't go in there being Jennifer and then expect to flip and change, because they're not going to have that imagination.
When you first have a baby your life doesn't change. I mean, you have a little less sleep and you drag these cuddly things around you and it's just amazing. But you still get to be you. Once they get to, like, five, six and school and it starts to get, like, 'Wow, they got real problems. They're my responsibility.' Oh my God. That is overwhelming.
I think if there's any difference between me and a traditional CEO, it's that I've been unwilling to change myself or shape my personality around what's expected.
I think your alcohol intake has to change. You know, usually a big person feels they can drink anything they want to and as much as they want to and I've cut that way back.
Just because you liked something as a youngster doesn't mean you have to like it as an adult. You can change your taste a little bit on the sweets and things like that.
I'm all about change, and I know things are going to move forward in life, and that's just how it goes.
To be in a situation where you have no rights whatsoever is something I wish everybody could experience. People's attitudes would change. It would be a better place.
You know who is against democracy in the Middle East? The husbands. They got used to their way of life. Now, the traditional way of life must change. Everybody must change. If you don't give equal rights to women, you can't progress.
I always try to keep the circumstances in my life fresh. I like to change the physical environment I live in, change the people around me and try to experience things for the first time. I think that keeps one on their toes, creatively and spiritually.
Imagine if the pension funds and endowments that own much of the equity in our financial services companies demanded that those companies revisit the way mortgages were marketed to those without adequate skills to understand the products they were being sold. Management would have to change the way things were done.
One of the most important things that I did to turn my life around was to realize and to accept that from this minute, that's all we have. Everything that happened behind us we cannot change so you might as well look to the future.
One-third of Americans have already been forced to change their lifestyle because their disposable income is gone. A guy can't go to the corner bar after a rough day at work to have a beer, that's gone to oil!
The reality of split government puts a premium on creativity within the administration. President Obama needs to put the right people in charge of the agencies and then have them push the bounds of administrative power to change policy through those agencies. President Obama has a pretty good track record of this.
I'm not going to change the world overnight. It's one person at a time, and hopefully they're people in positions of power who can help people get in those roles and really, truly embrace colorblind casting.
Really, each era has its own false nostalgia. We all put a picket fence up around something. For my generation it was the '50s, and for other generations it will be something else. Change is scary for everyone, as is complexity, contradiction, and an uncertain future.
I always get bored with my hair. That's why I would always change it throughout my career.
We may need to change the way we think. As in Israel, I think there should be a mandatory draft, where you go away for the service of your country for three years.
There was a great complexity to my father. He was a devoted family man. But, in the same breath, he simply was not suited to an anchored life. He should have been somebody who had a backpack, an old map, a bit of change in his pocket and that was it - roaming the world.
The world will change for the better when people decide they are sick and tired of being sick and tired of the way the world is, and decide to change themselves.
All we need, really, is a change from a near frigid to a tropical attitude of mind.
I moved to New York last year and I love it. It's a huge change and I've always wanted to spend time there. It's like a more intense London, and everything's up a few notches. The lights are brighter, the pace is faster and the food's better.
Everything can change at any moment, suddenly and forever.
I was advised by an American agent when I was about 19 to change my surname.
When you have that window of opportunity called a crisis, move as quickly as you can, get as much done as you can. There's a momentum for change that's very compelling.
When you have a tough loss, go through it and agonize. I had one loss that I still want to change, but at the same time I realize it is an important part of who I am.
Turbulence is life force. It is opportunity. Let's love turbulence and use it for change.
I thought, well, you might see curves there, but that's just a bone - so even if I lose weight that's not going to change anything. That's how I look. That's my shape. Do the math.
Look at all the buses now that want exact change, exact change. I figure if I give them exact change, they should take me exactly where I want to go.
I'm a role model now. I didn't know I was gonna have 13-year-old fans, so I've tried to change a few things here and there. But I also know that the girls don't want me to be Miley Cyrus, either.
As far as I was concerned, either I was a homosexual or I wasn't, so making films would change nothing.
I am going to get political on you. Because I am the most shallow person in the world, my mission is to see men's formal wear change a little bit. It is too rigid! Everybody looks like a penguin!
When characters change on screen, it makes you feel better about yourself. You think, 'Oh I change too, I'm constantly becoming a better person.'
If your life changes, we can change the world, too.
Aside from my work, in my everyday private life, I'm not a very adventureous person. I don't look for change.
I just think we're living in a time of massive, amazing change, like the Industrial Revolution on acid.
We may think there is willpower involved, but more likely... change is due to want power. Wanting the new addiction more than the old one. Wanting the new me in preference to the person I am now.
Too many people just eat to consume calories. Try dining for a change.
You must change in order to survive.
We are like a woman with a difficult pregnancy. We have to rebuild the social classes in Egypt, and we must change the way things were.
On the political front, of course it's a zero-sum game. If it's all white males holding positions, you bring 10 women in, then it's, 'Women are coming!' Get 10 blacks and it's, 'Blacks are coming!' 'Hispanics are coming!' Zero-sum game. The seatmates might change but the chairs don't move. In the economy, the number of chairs can actually increase.
When I'm bored or tired of being blonde, I'll throw on a wig. It's a lot less of a permanent way to change your look, and I have about 10 - all different colors, shapes, bobs, long hair, short, feathered.
I am artistic so I reserve the right to change my mind at any point. I just like to do different things. What is more important than the name is that people know that I really like acting, I enjoy it and I want people to know that I am serious.
Is there any wonder why we are in such big trouble? Any question why the people don't trust their government anymore, and demand a change?
I like the way my heart beats, I like the way I think I don't need or want anything to change that.
Fall is my favorite season in Los Angeles, watching the birds change color and fall from the trees.
Since 'Idol' I've gotten used to having an amazing hair and make-up team around me, so I'm starting to get picky. I know what I like now and I'm happy to say 'Could we maybe change that?' if I don't like something. I don't yell or anything, but I think I could definitely start to act a little diva-ish when it comes to my look.
I think I can change the game.
As far as friendships go, things change even without the fame. People start moving on. I have a few friends that are married and are starting to have kids and I'm like, 'Oh my goodness gracious - that's so insane.' I also have friends who are just doing their own thing, which is cool.
If I have to change my lifestyle, I don't want to live.
Well... I had braces and I had to wear headgear! I loved my braces, actually. For me, they were like a piece of jewelry! Instead of the silver or pewter I had gold braces. It was so much fun, I loved them. I got to change the colors and stuff and I had the rubber bands.
I wouldn't change one thing about my professional life, and I make it a point not to dwell on my mistakes.
Christians should be ready for a change because Jesus was the greatest changer in history.
I'm definitely open to change, but at the same time I am quite stubborn.
One of the things I've always personally tried to stress with this band was to have some kind of visual aspect and to be consistent with it - like, not to change.
No foreigner has a place asking another people, another country, to change their constitution.
The only way to change is to vote. People are responsible.
You want to balance the budget in this country? We change the salary structure for Congress and the President. Every year they don't balance the budget, we don't pay them.
Change brings opportunities. On the other hand, change can be confusing.
Finishing food is about the tiny touches. In the last seconds you can change everything.
So I think it's - what was important to me is that I found that I can't change the fact that people already have made an opinion about me. But I don't think that should stop me from trying to correct some of the misperceptions that are out there.
There are many challenges, there are many obstacles let us try to change the obstacles to advantages.
I don't change. The things around me change.
Doubt is an uneasy and dissatisfied state from which we struggle to free ourselves and pass into the state of belief while the latter is a calm and satisfactory state which we do not wish to avoid, or to change to a belief in anything else.
I was born left-handed, but I was made to use my other hand. When I was writing 'Famished Road,' which was very long, I got repetitive stress syndrome. My right wrist collapsed, so I started using my left hand. The prose I wrote with my left hand came out denser, so later on I had to change it.
Whoever is content with the world, and who profits from its lack of justice, does not want to change it.
But I think it's more that when you're young, you're invincible, you're immortal - or at least you think you are. The possibilities are limitless, you're inventing the future. Then you get older and suddenly you have a history. It's fixed. You can't change anything. I find that a bit disturbing, to be honest.
Worry is a useless mulling over of things we cannot change.
If you continually write and read yourself as a fiction, you can change what's crushing you.
Obama has no power to change American policy because there are people who specialize in drawing these policies, which have been and still are hostile towards Islam.
I don't write for any group. I write to bring about a change in consciousness.
And I do believe that the way to change a society, to uplift people - not just their spirit, but to uplift their society and economic base - is through education.
I don't read reviews because by then it's too late - whatever anyone says, the book won't change. It is written.
You know, Motorcycle Diaries has no incredible stories, no sudden plot twists, it doesn't play that way. It's about recognizing that instance of change and embracing it.
Sometimes when we are generous in small, barely detectable ways it can change someone else's life forever.
The Bush-Cheney administration had betrayed some basic American values. So there was hunger for change.
I'd say that after my father passed my writing changed, it went deeper. Most would say 'matured' but I don't think I'd use that word in relation to my progress. I think 'change' is a little more accurate.
I do genuinely believe that the political system is not linear. When it reaches a tipping point fashioned by a critical mass of opinion, the slow pace of change we're used to will no longer be the norm. I see a lot of signs every day that we're moving closer and closer to that tipping point.
There are those people who are in your corner no matter what, you can't do any wrong, even when you do wrong. And then there are those people that no matter what you do they are going to dislike you and that's not going to change.
Pick up a rifle and you change instantly from a subject to a citizen.
We are all born with a unique genetic blueprint, which lays out the basic characteristics of our personality as well as our physical health and appearance... And yet, we all know that life experiences do change us.
Injuries obviously change the way you approach the game.
I had a very insightful friend who warned me back when I stopped reading scripts, 'It's easier to change directions while you're still moving.' If you stop, it's harder to get started again. I still don't think I made the wrong decision, but he was right.
Styles, like everything else, change. Style doesn't.
We have no reason to think that climate change is harmful if you look at the world as a whole. Most places, in fact, are better off being warmer than being colder. And historically, the really bad times for the environment and for people have been the cold periods rather than the warm periods.
It's better to get smart than to get mad. I try not to get so insulted that I will not take advantage of an opportunity to persuade people to change their minds.
If you don't like the way the world is, you change it. You have an obligation to change it. You just do it one step at a time.
I wrote seven Myron Bolitar novels in a row, and I never want to write a Myron book where he just solves a crime. Every one of them I want to be personal, and I want him to grow and change. The problem with that is, it makes the series limited, you can't write a series where a guy is always going through some kind of crisis.
Change is not a destination, just as hope is not a strategy.
A leopard does not change his spots, or change his feeling that spots are rather a credit.
The Howard Hughes I knew began to change after his plane crash in 1941.
I want art to make me think. In order to do that, it may piss me off, or make me uncomfortable. That promotes awareness and change, or at least some discussion.
I'd be happy to be taken as a woman - and that's what I was initially trying to do when I started throwing on dresses and stuff. But that wasn't going to happen because everyone kept calling me sir. So I thought I'd change the method and just start wearing what I wanted to wear.
Governments cannot make marriages or turn feckless individuals into responsible citizens. That needs another kind of change agent.
I don't want to clip on the armour every morning. I've seen some politicians do this and they get a bit mangled and bitter. I just refuse to do that. I refuse to be angry or bitter or complain, and I remain open. I may sometimes be a bit too open but I'm not going to change that one bit.
Much can and must be done by governments, but they cannot of themselves change lives.
Most of what needs to be changed in the euro zone can be done without treaty changes. The demand for treaty change is as political as it is legal and I don't think it's going to happen soon.
Europe is dying. That is one of the unsayable truths of our time. We are undergoing the moral equivalent of climate change and no one is talking about it.
What creates freedom? A revolution in the streets? Mass protest? Civil war? A change of government? The ousting of the old guard and its replacement by the new? History, more often than not, shows that hopes raised by such events are often dashed, sooner rather than later.
My kid could get a bad X-ray and I could get a call from the doctor saying I have something growing in my bum and that would change my perspective on everything instantaneously, on what is and what is not important.
You do have to change things as warfare changes.
Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along.'
I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.
Courage is what it takes to stand up and speak courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen.
There are no easy answers' but there are simple answers. We must have the courage to do what we know is morally right.
Courage is the most important of all the virtues, because without courage you can't practice any other virtue consistently. You can practice any virtue erratically, but nothing consistently without courage.
Courage is grace under pressure.
We must build dikes of courage to hold back the flood of fear.
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear.
He who is not courageous enough to take risks will accomplish nothing in life.
Courage is not simply one of the virtues, but the form of every virtue at the testing point.
Courage is being scared to death... and saddling up anyway.
Don't Make Assumptions. Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.
You will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor.
Efforts and courage are not enough without purpose and direction.
One man with courage is a majority.
Have the courage to say no. Have the courage to face the truth. Do the right thing because it is right. These are the magic keys to living your life with integrity.
Faced with what is right, to leave it undone shows a lack of courage.
How few there are who have courage enough to own their faults, or resolution enough to mend them.
Who could refrain that had a heart to love and in that heart courage to make love known?
Inaction breeds doubt and fear. Action breeds confidence and courage. If you want to conquer fear, do not sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy.
It takes a lot of courage to release the familiar and seemingly secure, to embrace the new. But there is no real security in what is no longer meaningful. There is more security in the adventurous and exciting, for in movement there is life, and in change there is power.
A great part of courage is the courage of having done the thing before.
Have courage for the great sorrows of life and patience for the small ones and when you have laboriously accomplished your daily task, go to sleep in peace.
He is a man of courage who does not run away, but remains at his post and fights against the enemy.
From caring comes courage.
Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.
The only service a friend can really render is to keep up your courage by holding up to you a mirror in which you can see a noble image of yourself.
Failure is unimportant. It takes courage to make a fool of yourself.
Men make history and not the other way around. In periods where there is no leadership, society stands still. Progress occurs when courageous, skillful leaders seize the opportunity to change things for the better.
The most courageous act is still to think for yourself. Aloud.
Those who lack the courage will always find a philosophy to justify it.
Success is never final, failure is never fatal. It's courage that counts.
Courage is contagious. When a brave man takes a stand, the spines of others are often stiffened.
Be courageous. I have seen many depressions in business. Always America has emerged from these stronger and more prosperous. Be brave as your fathers before you. Have faith! Go forward!
Courage is a kind of salvation.
Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.
Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.
Creativity requires the courage to let go of certainties.
What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything?
God, give us grace to accept with serenity the things that cannot be changed, courage to change the things which should be changed and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.
Courage is fire, and bullying is smoke.
America was not built on fear. America was built on courage, on imagination and an unbeatable determination to do the job at hand.
It requires more courage to suffer than to die.
Courage is found in unlikely places.
Courage is the greatest of all virtues, because if you haven't courage, you may not have an opportunity to use any of the others.
To have courage for whatever comes in life - everything lies in that.
Any intelligent fool can make things bigger and more complex... It takes a touch of genius - and a lot of courage to move in the opposite direction.
The opposite for courage is not cowardice, it is conformity. Even a dead fish can go with the flow.
One man with courage makes a majority.
Real courage is when you know you're licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.
I'm grateful to God for His bountiful gifts... He gave me courage and faith in myself.
A great deal of talent is lost to the world for want of a little courage. Every day sends to their graves obscure men whose timidity prevented them from making a first effort.
The secret to happiness is freedom... And the secret to freedom is courage.
A lot of people do not muster the courage to live their dreams because they are afraid to die.
We must have courage to bet on our ideas, to take the calculated risk, and to act. Everyday living requires courage if life is to be effective and bring happiness.
The courage to be is the courage to accept oneself, in spite of being unacceptable.
Never be discouraged. If I were sunk in the lowest pits of Nova Scotia, with the Rocky Mountains piled on me, I would hang on, exercise faith, and keep up good courage, and I would come out on top.
It is only necessary to have courage, for strength without self-confidence is useless.
We have a powerful potential in out youth, and we must have the courage to change old ideas and practices so that we may direct their power toward good ends.
Courage - a perfect sensibility of the measure of danger, and a mental willingness to endure it.
If you are lucky enough to find a way of life you love, you have to find the courage to live it.
Courage is not the absence of despair it is, rather, the capacity to move ahead in spite of despair.
Courage is being afraid but going on anyhow.
Clear thinking requires courage rather than intelligence.
People with courage and character always seem sinister to the rest.
Do not lose courage in considering your own imperfections.
The best protection any woman can have... is courage.
The trials on the road to world harmony are no greater than the courage of those who accept the challenge.
Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.
We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face... we must do that which we think we cannot.
All our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.
God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.
Mistakes are always forgivable, if one has the courage to admit them.
My great hope is to laugh as much as I cry to get my work done and try to love somebody and have the courage to accept the love in return.
I, with a deeper instinct, choose a man who compels my strength, who makes enormous demands on me, who does not doubt my courage or my toughness, who does not believe me naive or innocent, who has the courage to treat me like a woman.
You have to accept whatever comes and the only important thing is that you meet it with courage and with the best that you have to give.
Courage means to keep working a relationship, to continue seeking solutions to difficult problems, and to stay focused during stressful periods.
History, despite its wrenching pain, cannot be unlived, but if faced with courage, need not be lived again.
One isn't necessarily born with courage, but one is born with potential. Without courage, we cannot practice any other virtue with consistency. We can't be kind, true, merciful, generous, or honest.
You don't develop courage by being happy in your relationships everyday. You develop it by surviving difficult times and challenging adversity.
Above all, we must realize that no arsenal, or no weapon in the arsenals of the world, is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women. It is a weapon our adversaries in today's world do not have.
It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world and moral courage so rare.
Wisdom, compassion, and courage are the three universally recognized moral qualities of men.
Courage is rightly esteemed the first of human qualities... because it is the quality which guarantees all others.
A nation which has forgotten the quality of courage which in the past has been brought to public life is not as likely to insist upon or regard that quality in its chosen leaders today - and in fact we have forgotten.
A man of courage is also full of faith.
Success is not measured by what you accomplish, but by the opposition you have encountered, and the courage with which you have maintained the struggle against overwhelming odds.
Do you really think it is weakness that yields to temptation? I tell you that there are terrible temptations which it requires strength, strength and courage to yield to.
It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.
The courage of life is often a less dramatic spectacle than the courage of a final moment but it is no less a magnificent mixture of triumph and tragedy.
He who has faith has... an inward reservoir of courage, hope, confidence, calmness, and assuring trust that all will come out well - even though to the world it may appear to come out most badly.
Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others.
The greatest test of courage on earth is to bear defeat without losing heart.
Every man has his own courage, and is betrayed because he seeks in himself the courage of other persons.
You may not always have a comfortable life and you will not always be able to solve all of the world's problems at once but don't ever underestimate the importance you can have because history has shown us that courage can be contagious and hope can take on a life of its own.
The principles of living greatly include the capacity to face trouble with courage, disappointment with cheerfulness, and trial with humility.
Courage is a mean with regard to fear and confidence.
Don't wish me happiness - I don't expect to be happy it's gotten beyond that, somehow. Wish me courage and strength and a sense of humor - I will need them all.
Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline simulated fear postulates courage simulated weakness postulates strength.
I want to grow old without facelifts. I want to have the courage to be loyal to the face I have made.
My message, especially to young people is to have courage to think differently, courage to invent, to travel the unexplored path, courage to discover the impossible and to conquer the problems and succeed. These are great qualities that they must work towards. This is my message to the young people.
A man of great common sense and good taste - meaning thereby a man without originality or moral courage.
It is only through labor and painful effort, by grim energy and resolute courage, that we move on to better things.
I never thought much of the courage of a lion tamer. Inside the cage he is at least safe from people.
True courage is being afraid, and going ahead and doing your job anyhow, that's what courage is.
Courtesy is as much a mark of a gentleman as courage.
He's a man of great common sense and good taste - meaning thereby a man without originality or moral courage.
Courage is like love it must have hope for nourishment.
Courage is knowing what not to fear.
Real nobility is based on scorn, courage, and profound indifference.
It takes a lot of courage to show your dreams to someone else.
My message to you all is of hope, courage and confidence. Let us mobilize all our resources in a systematic and organized way and tackle the grave issues that confront us with grim determination and discipline worthy of a great nation.
Believers, look up - take courage. The angels are nearer than you think.
God grant me the courage not to give up what I think is right even though I think it is hopeless.
All of us have moments in our lives that test our courage. Taking children into a house with a white carpet is one of them.
Change will never happen when people lack the ability and courage to see themselves for who they are.
Character contributes to beauty. It fortifies a woman as her youth fades. A mode of conduct, a standard of courage, discipline, fortitude, and integrity can do a great deal to make a woman beautiful.
A mode of conduct, a standard of courage, discipline, fortitude and integrity can do a great deal to make a woman beautiful.
Give us grace and strength to forbear and to persevere. Give us courage and gaiety and the quiet mind, spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies.
I have a hat. It is graceful and feminine and give me a certain dignity, as if I were attending a state funeral or something. Someday I may get up enough courage to wear it, instead of carrying it.
My mother taught me about the power of inspiration and courage, and she did it with a strength and a passion that I wish could be bottled.
Keep your fears to yourself, but share your courage with others.
Most of us have far more courage than we ever dreamed we possessed.
Life is to be entered upon with courage.
Every human being on this earth is born with a tragedy, and it isn't original sin. He's born with the tragedy that he has to grow up... a lot of people don't have the courage to do it.
I've been through it all, baby, I'm mother courage.
And I love that even in the toughest moments, when we're all sweating it - when we're worried that the bill won't pass, and it seems like all is lost - Barack never lets himself get distracted by the chatter and the noise. Just like his grandmother, he just keeps getting up and moving forward... with patience and wisdom, and courage and grace.
A wise woman recognizes when her life is out of balance and summons the courage to act to correct it, she knows the meaning of true generosity, happiness is the reward for a life lived in harmony, with a courage and grace.
We need to find the courage to say no to the things and people that are not serving us if we want to rediscover ourselves and live our lives with authenticity.
Untutored courage is useless in the face of educated bullets.
Courage is almost a contradiction in terms. It means a strong desire to live taking the form of readiness to die.
The first virtue in a soldier is endurance of fatigue courage is only the second virtue.
There can be no failure to a man who has not lost his courage, his character, his self respect, or his self-confidence. He is still a King.
Two qualities are indispensable: first, an intellect that, even in the darkest hour, retains some glimmerings of the inner light which leads to truth and second, the courage to follow this faint light wherever it may lead.
Many a man will have the courage to die gallantly, but will not have the courage to say, or even to think, that the cause for which he is asked to die is an unworthy one.
Sometimes even to live is an act of courage.
Healing takes courage, and we all have courage, even if we have to dig a little to find it.
Goodness is about character - integrity, honesty, kindness, generosity, moral courage, and the like. More than anything else, it is about how we treat other people.
If human beings had genuine courage, they'd wear their costumes every day of the year, not just on Halloween.
There is nothing in the world so much admired as a man who knows how to bear unhappiness with courage.
I have seen in the Halls of Congress more idealism, more humanness, more compassion, more profiles of courage than in any other institution that I have ever known.
Courage and grace are a formidable mixture. The only place to see it is in the bullring.
No matter what you think about the Iraq war, there is one thing we can all agree on for the next days - we have to salute the courage and bravery of those who are risking their lives to vote and those brave Iraqi and American soldiers fighting to protect their right to vote.
The courage we desire and prize is not the courage to die decently, but to live manfully.
Just remaining quietly in the presence of God, listening to Him, being attentive to Him, requires a lot of courage and know-how.
The paradox of courage is that a man must be a little careless of his life even in order to keep it.
Just as courage imperils life, fear protects it.
There can be no great courage where there is no confidence or assurance, and half the battle is in the conviction that we can do what we undertake.
We need men with moral courage to speak and write their real thoughts, and to stand by their convictions, even to the very death.
The weak in courage is strong in cunning.
Freedom is the sure possession of those alone who have the courage to defend it.
You will find as you grow older that courage is the rarest of all qualities to be found in public life.
Every day begins with an act of courage and hope: getting out of bed.
A team is where a boy can prove his courage on his own. A gang is where a coward goes to hide.
Each person has inside a basic decency and goodness. If he listens to it and acts on it, he is giving a great deal of what it is the world needs most. It is not complicated but it takes courage. It takes courage for a person to listen to his own goodness and act on it.
It is a blessed thing that in every age some one has had the individuality enough and courage enough to stand by his own convictions.
The opposite of courage in our society is not cowardice, it is conformity.
Perfect courage is to do without witnesses what one would be capable of doing with the world looking on.
Courage can't see around corners but goes around them anyway.
Courage and willingness to just go for it, whether it is a conversation or a spontaneous trip or trying new things that are scary - it is a really attractive quality.
Earth teach me to forget myself as melted snow forgets its life. Earth teach me resignation as the leaves which die in the fall. Earth teach me courage as the tree which stands all alone. Earth teach me regeneration as the seed which rises in the spring.
The only courage that matters is the kind that gets you from one moment to the next.
Half a century ago, the amazing courage of Rosa Parks, the visionary leadership of Martin Luther King, and the inspirational actions of the civil rights movement led politicians to write equality into the law and make real the promise of America for all her citizens.
Courage and perseverance have a magical talisman, before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish into air.
In the Soviet army it takes more courage to retreat than advance.
Courage without conscience is a wild beast.
Eccentricity has always abounded when and where strength of character had abounded and the amount of eccentricity in a society has generally been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigor, and courage which it contained.
Why should we honour those that die upon the field of battle? A man may show as reckless a courage in entering into the abyss of himself.
Let's drink to the spirit of gallantry and courage that made a strange Heaven out of unbelievable Hell, and let's drink to the hope that one day this country of ours, which we love so much, will find dignity and greatness and peace again.
To dare to live alone is the rarest courage since there are many who had rather meet their bitterest enemy in the field, than their own hearts in their closet.
Traits like humility, courage, and empathy are easily overlooked - but it's immensely important to find them in your closest relationships.
He who knows no hardships will know no hardihood. He who faces no calamity will need no courage. Mysterious though it is, the characteristics in human nature which we love best grow in a soil with a strong mixture of troubles.
Valor is stability, not of legs and arms, but of courage and the soul.
It is courage, courage, courage, that raises the blood of life to crimson splendor. Live bravely and present a brave front to adversity.
All you need is the plan, the road map, and the courage to press on to your destination.
Courage consists not in hazarding without fear but being resolutely minded in a just cause.
To create one's world in any of the arts takes courage.
The kind of beauty I want most is the hard-to-get kind that comes from within - strength, courage, dignity.
Genius is talent set on fire by courage.
We've begun to raise daughters more like sons... but few have the courage to raise our sons more like our daughters.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Life is the most exciting opportunity we have. But we have one shot. You graduate from college once, and that's it. You're going out of that nest. And you have to find that courage that's deep, deep, deep in there. Every step of the way.
He that fails in his endeavors after wealth or power will not long retain either honesty or courage.
Either life entails courage, or it ceases to be life.
Courage stands halfway between cowardice and rashness, one of which is a lack, the other an excess of courage.
Everyone has talent. What is rare is the courage to follow the talent to the dark place where it leads.
To persevere, trusting in what hopes he has, is courage in a man.
Political courage is not political suicide.
This soul, or life within us, by no means agrees with the life outside us. If one has the courage to ask her what she thinks, she is always saying the very opposite to what other people say.
Courage and conviction are powerful weapons against an enemy who depends only on fists or guns. Animals know when you are afraid a coward knows when you are not.
Unless a reviewer has the courage to give you unqualified praise, I say ignore the bastard.
The strangest, most generous, and proudest of all virtues is true courage.
Courage, above all things, is the first quality of a warrior.
The amount of eccentricity in a society has generally been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigor, and moral courage it contained. That so few now dare to be eccentric marks the chief danger of the time.
I beg you take courage the brave soul can mend even disaster.
The more wit the less courage.
I have the responsibility of over four million people, and I am in a position to do good, to be able to bring about a new life for my people, and I will continue to move in that direction. It's a burden, but it needs to be done, and you have to have the courage and wisdom to see it through.
Then there is a still higher type of courage - the courage to brave pain, to live with it, to never let others know of it and to still find joy in life to wake up in the morning with an enthusiasm for the day ahead.
One man scorned and covered with scars still strove with his last ounce of courage to reach the unreachable stars and the world will be better for this.
Take chances, make mistakes. That's how you grow. Pain nourishes your courage. You have to fail in order to practice being brave.
I think my mother... made it clear that you have to live life by your own terms and you have to not worry about what other people think and you have to have the courage to do the unexpected.
Courage, not compromise, brings the smile of God's approval.
Leaders come in many forms, with many styles and diverse qualities. There are quiet leaders and leaders one can hear in the next county. Some find strength in eloquence, some in judgment, some in courage.
Determination, energy, and courage appear spontaneously when we care deeply about something. We take risks that are unimaginable in any other context.
Great tragedy has come to us, and we are meeting it with the best that is in our country, with courage and concern for others because this is America. This is who we are.
Way down deep, we're all motivated by the same urges. Cats have the courage to live by them.
Suffering! We owe to it all that is good in us, all that gives value to life we owe to it pity, we owe to it courage, we owe to it all the virtues.
Failure is only postponed success as long as courage 'coaches' ambition. The habit of persistence is the habit of victory.
It takes as much courage to have tried and failed as it does to have tried and succeeded.
Today we affirm a new commitment to live out our nation's promise through civility, courage, compassion and character.
Courage consists not in blindly overlooking danger, but in seeing it, and conquering it.
Creativity takes courage.
Courage enlarges, cowardice diminishes resources. In desperate straits the fears of the timid aggravate the dangers that imperil the brave.
If we survive danger it steels our courage more than anything else.
There are pretenders to piety as well as to courage.
Religion in its humility restores man to his only dignity, the courage to live by grace.
Courage that grows from constitution often forsakes a man when he has occasion for it courage which arises from a sense of duty acts in a uniform manner.
If we are to survive, we must have ideas, vision, and courage. These things are rarely produced by committees. Everything that matters in our intellectual and moral life begins with an individual confronting his own mind and conscience in a room by himself.
When God speaks, oftentimes His voice will call for an act of courage on our part.
Peace comes when you talk to the guy you most hate. And that's where the courage of a leader comes, because when you sit down with your enemy, you as a leader must already have very considerable confidence from your own constituency.
We are very much what others think of us. The reception our observations meet with gives us courage to proceed, or damps our efforts.
It takes someone with a vision of the possibilities to attain new levels of experience. Someone with the courage to live his dreams.
Rather like Batman, I embody the themes of the movie which are the values of family, courage and compassion and a sense of right and wrong, good and bad and justice.
The principal act of courage is to endure and withstand dangers doggedly rather than to attack them.
Have the courage to act instead of react.
People think I have courage. The courage in my family are my wife Pam, my three daughters, here, Nicole, Jamie, LeeAnn, my mom, who's right here too.
Time is neutral and does not change things. With courage and initiative, leaders change things.
I'm a big fan of small business ownership. I think it's the backbone of American innovation. But to be successful, you first have to have the courage to go for it.
Is he alone who has courage on his right hand and faith on his left hand?
Let a new earth rise. Let another world be born. Let a bloody peace be written in the sky. Let a second generation full of courage issue forth let a people loving freedom come to growth.
In strife who inquires whether stratagem or courage was used?
Often the difference between a successful man and a failure is not one's better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on his ideas, to take a calculated risk, and to act.
In fact, my courage and my bravery at a young age was the thing I was bullied for, a kind of 'Who do you think you are?'
There is in true beauty, as in courage, something which narrow souls cannot dare to admire.
Physical courage, which despises all danger, will make a man brave in one way and moral courage, which despises all opinion, will make a man brave in another.
You have to have courage to be obedient to God.
I'm sick of not having the courage to be an absolute nobody.
Courage conquers all things: it even gives strength to the body.
Courage is the price that life exacts for granting peace.
The sea - this truth must be confessed - has no generosity. No display of manly qualities - courage, hardihood, endurance, faithfulness - has ever been known to touch its irresponsible consciousness of power.
Courage, my friends 'tis not too late to build a better world.
Courage is doing what you are afraid to do. There can be no courage unless you are scared.
Courage is what preserves our liberty, safety, life, and our homes and parents, our country and children. Courage comprises all things.
Courage is often lack of insight, whereas cowardice in many cases is based on good information.
The courage of the poet is to keep ajar the door that leads into madness.
Courage is simply the willingness to be afraid and act anyway.
Whether you be man or woman you will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor.
Without courage, wisdom bears no fruit.
He who loses wealth loses much he who loses a friend loses more but he that loses his courage loses all.
True courage is not the brutal force of vulgar heroes, but the firm resolve of virtue and reason.
At the bottom of not a little of the bravery that appears in the world, there lurks a miserable cowardice. Men will face powder and steel because they have not the courage to face public opinion.
Physical bravery is an animal instinct moral bravery is much higher and truer courage.
While President Bush likes to project an image of strength and courage, the real truth is that in the presence of his large financial contributors, he is a moral coward.
Hope lies in dreams, in imagination, and in the courage of those who dare to make dreams into reality.
Success is that old ABC - ability, breaks, and courage.
Audacity augments courage hesitation, fear.
For this equilibrium now in sight, let us trust that mankind, as it has occurred in the greatest periods of its past, will find for itself a new code of ethics, common to all, made of tolerance, of courage, and of faith in the Spirit of men.
The courage of very ordinary people is all that stands between us and the dark.
To live we must conquer incessantly, we must have the courage to be happy.
I have the courage of my convictions.
In all realms of life it takes courage to stretch your limits, express your power, and fulfill your potential... it's no different in the financial realm.
A wise woman knows how to summon her courage and do what is right, rather than what is easy.
It takes vision and courage to create - it takes faith and courage to prove.
Decision is a risk rooted in the courage of being free.
The courage to be is rooted in the God who appears when God has disappeared in the anxiety of doubt.
Soldiers, when committed to a task, can't compromise. It's unrelenting devotion to the standards of duty and courage, absolute loyalty to others, not letting the task go until it's been done.
America needs jobs, smaller government, less spending and a president with the courage to offer more than yet another speech.
If we bring not the good courage of minds covetous of truth, and truth only, prepared to hear all things, and decide upon all things, according to evidence, we should do more wisely to sit down contented in ignorance, than to bestir ourselves only to reap disappointment.
I think there's a difference between ditzy and dumb. Dumb is just not knowing. Ditzy is having the courage to ask!
Values are principles and ideas that bring meaning to the seemingly mundane experience of life. A meaningful life that ultimately brings happiness and pride requires you to respond to temptations as well as challenges with honor, dignity, and courage.
The test of courage comes when we are in the minority. The test of tolerance comes when we are in the majority.
So the brother in black offers to these United States the source of courage that endures, and laughter.
It requires greater courage to preserve inner freedom, to move on in one's inward journey into new realms, than to stand defiantly for outer freedom. It is often easier to play the martyr, as it is to be rash in battle.
The best thing to do is stare it in the face and move on. We have to face our fears and plow through. I think taking chances takes a lot more courage than staying stagnant and doing what's safe and comfortable.
There's only one requirement of any of us, and that is to be courageous. Because courage, as you might know, defines all other human behavior. And, I believe - because I've done a little of this myself - pretending to be courageous is just as good as the real thing.
Those who won our independence... valued liberty as an end and as a means. They believed liberty to be the secret of happiness and courage to be the secret of liberty.
And I think most people in this country want to see a president that's got the courage to say we're going to cut the tax burden, and reduce the regulatory climate, and we're going to get Americans working.
I have no physical courage, I've asked for a double.
What has made America amazing has been the fact that throughout our history, throughout the more than 200 years of our history, there have been men and women of courage who stood up and decided it was more important to look out for the future of their children and their grandchildren than their own political futures.
Often the difference between a successful person and a failure is not one has better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on one's ideas, to take a calculated risk - and to act.
Courage is the ladder on which all the other virtues mount.
Courage is the capacity to confront what can be imagined.
Patience, that blending of moral courage with physical timidity.
War alone brings up to their highest tension all human energies and imposes the stamp of nobility upon the peoples who have the courage to make it.
The last thing a woman will consent to discover in a man whom she loves, or on whom she simply depends, is want of courage.
Because with courage and conviction I believe we can deliver a more flexible, adaptable and open European Union in which the interests and ambitions of all its members can be met.
Courage in danger is half the battle.
Courage easily finds its own eloquence.
Good courage in a bad affair is half of the evil overcome.
The courage of a soldier is found to be the cheapest and most common quality of human nature.
Courage is a special kind of knowledge: the knowledge of how to fear what ought to be feared and how not to fear what ought not to be feared.
My mother taught me that we all have the power to achieve our dreams. What I lacked was the courage.
Every man of courage is a man of his word.
A man of courage never needs weapons, but he may need bail.
As for courage and will - we cannot measure how much of each lies within us, we can only trust there will be sufficient to carry through trials which may lie ahead.
But courage which goes against military expediency is stupidity, or, if it is insisted upon by a commander, irresponsibility.
Cowardice and courage are never without a measure of affectation. Nor is love. Feelings are never true. They play with their mirrors.
Let us go forth with fear and courage and rage to save the world.
Washington's answer to a self-inflicted financial crisis reminded Americans why they so deeply distrust the political class. The 'fiscal cliff' process was secretive and sloppy, and the nation's so-called leadership lacked the political courage to address our root problems: joblessness and debt.
When you make that crossover from life to real life, when you're not treated as a child anymore but as a man, and you are no longer given the benefit of the doubt, it takes some courage to face that.
Fashion should not be expected to serve in the stead of courage or character.
We're going to be OK because of the American people. They have more grit, determination and courage than you can imagine.
At the same time, I would add that the American people have a lot of courage.
It takes a lot of courage to face up to things you can't do because we feed ourselves so much denial.
Never undertake anything for which you wouldn't have the courage to ask the blessings of heaven.
Honest conviction is my courage the Constitution is my guide.
The courage to imagine the otherwise is our greatest resource, adding color and suspense to all our life.
Discouragement is not the absence of adequacy but the absence of courage.
Conscience is the root of all true courage if a man would be brave let him obey his conscience.
I always disliked dogs, those protectors of cowards who lack the courage to fight an assailant themselves.
You cannot build character and courage by destroying men's initiative and independence.
We are biological creatures. We are born, we live, we die. There is no transcendent purpose to existence. At best we are creatures of reason, and by using reason we can cure ourselves of emotional excess. Purged of both hope and fear, we find courage in the face of helplessness, insignificance and uncertainty.
Courage is the art of being the only one who knows you're scared to death.
We learned to be patient observers like the owl. We learned cleverness from the crow, and courage from the jay, who will attack an owl ten times its size to drive it off its territory. But above all of them ranked the chickadee because of its indomitable spirit.
If you could get up the courage to begin, you have the courage to succeed.
There are no greater treasures than the highest human qualities such as compassion, courage and hope. Not even tragic accident or disaster can destroy such treasures of the heart.
Nothing gives us courage more readily than the desire to avoid looking like a damn fool.
Lying at the root of the social agreements of 1980 are the courage, sense of responsibility, and the solidarity of the working people. Both sides have then recognized that an accord must be reached if bloodshed is to be prevented.
A member must say that he is a member of the Unification Church and that he is the follower of Sun Myung Moon. If he doesn't have the courage to say it, he is not worthy of me.
What is more mortifying than to feel that you have missed the plum for want of courage to shake the tree?
It's not just Bin Laden or just those that are involved in the counterterrorism effort. We've gotta cast the net broader than that. But I think it's a - very special tribute that we all owe to the bravery and courage of the men and women in the intelligence and military business who performed so well to finally get it done.
Courage is always rewarded.
The enchanting charms of this sublime science reveal only to those who have the courage to go deeply into it.
With enough courage, you can do without a reputation.
What I've always said is that I'm opposed to institutional racism, and I would've, had I've been alive at the time, I think, had the courage to march with Martin Luther King to overturn institutional racism, and I see no place in our society for institutional racism.
I have reached the conclusion that those who have physical courage also have moral courage. Physical courage is a great test.
Wait for the Lord. Behave yourself manfully, and be of good courage. Do not be faithless, but stay in your place and do not turn back.
It takes a good deal of physical courage to ride a horse. This, however, I have. I get it at about forty cents a flask, and take it as required.
Success means having the courage, the determination, and the will to become the person you believe you were meant to be.
He's nice enough not to want to be associated with a nasty remark but not nice enough not to make it. Lacking the courage of one's nastiness does not make one nice.
It is easy enough to praise men for the courage of their convictions. I wish I could teach the sad young of this mealy generation the courage of their confusions.
Unjust. How many times I've used that word, scolded myself with it. All I mean by it now is that I don't have the final courage to say that I refuse to preside over violations against myself, and to hell with justice.
You have to do what you need to do as an artist. You have to have that courage.
I don't understand why people say that I am full of courage. I feel terribly nervous.
A statesman wants courage and a statesman wants vision but believe me, after six months' experience, he wants first, second, third and all the time - patience.
Prime Minister Sharon, Prime Minister Abbas, I urge you today to end the designs of those who seek destruction, annihilation and occupation, and I urge you to have the will and the courage to begin to realize our dreams of peace, prosperity and coexistence.
Women's courage is rather different from men's. The fact that women have to bring up children and look after husbands makes them braver at facing long-term issues, such as illness. Men are more immediately courageous. Lots of people are brave in battle.
The most important thing for me was to never, ever, ever deny it. But I didn't really have the courage to talk about it. I was thinking, The people who need to know I'm gay know.
I want to find the candidates who understand the principles of American exceptionalism and have the character, the courage, and the confidence to actually lead the greatest nation in the world.
People talk about the courage of condemned men walking to the place of execution: sometimes it needs as much courage to walk with any kind of bearing towards another person's habitual misery.
I went through a long period where I was afraid of doing things I wanted to do, and you get your courage back, which is what's important.
Overcoming the Cold War required courage from the people of Central and Eastern Europe and what was then the German Democratic Republic, but it also required the steadfastness of Western partner over many decades when many had long lost hope of integration of the two Germanys and Europe.
Deep Throat's information, and in my view, courage, allowed the newspaper to use what he knew and suspected.
On sensitive issues, talk isn't cheap - it takes real courage to pry open topics nailed shut.
When you really believe in God, it gives you a courage, a confidence that enables you to meet the things coming.
Today, because of President Obama's courage, kids can stay on their parent's plan until they are 26. Insurers cannot kick you off your policy because you have hit your limit. They will not be able to deny you because you have a pre-existing condition.
Men create real miracles when they use their God-given courage and intelligence.
I want to thank the Academy for its courage and generosity.
I have a lot of courage. I'm a realist.
In times of conflict, war, poverty or religious fundamentalism, women and children are the first and most numerous victims. Women need all their courage today.
A military coup needs a sacrifice and courage that you can't find in an army without morale.
Courage is poorly housed that dwells in numbers the lion never counts the herd that are about him, nor weighs how many flocks he has to scatter.
Optimism is essential to achievement and it is also the foundation of courage and true progress.
Killing yourself is a major commitment, it takes a kind of courage. Most people just lead lives of cowardly desperation. It's kinda half suicide where you just dull yourself with substances.
We want deeper sincerity of motive, a greater courage in speech and earnestness in action.
I was a little doubtful about the propriety of going to the Mammoth Cave without a gentleman escort, but if two ladies travel alone they must have the courage of men.
Our situation today shows that beauty demands for itself at least as much courage and decision as do truth and goodness, and she will not allow herself to be separated and banned from her two sisters without taking them along with herself in an act of mysterious vengeance.
You can't test courage cautiously.
Being gifted needs courage.
Some of the greatest survivors have been women. Look at the courage so many women have shown after surviving earthquakes in the rubble for days on end.
Limit to courage? There is no limit to courage.
There is hope in dreams, imagination, and in the courage of those who wish to make those dreams a reality.
We are telling the American people to have patience, courage, resolve and determination.
Nothing gives a fearful man more courage than another's fear.
There are two types of courage involved with what I did. When it comes to picking up a rifle, millions of people are capable of doing that, as we see in Iraq or Vietnam. But when it comes to risking their careers, or risking being invited to lunch by the establishment, it turns out that's remarkably rare.
TV is so different from the movies. It takes a lot of stamina because you work such long hours. It is really challenging. You are learning the next day's lines while you are shooting today's scenes. I found courage I never realised I had. I hope to do more.
I think that the romantic impulse is in all of us and that sometimes we live it for a short time, but it's not part of a sensible way of living. It's a heroic path and it generally ends dangerously. I treasure it in the sense that I believe it's a path of great courage. It can also be the path of the foolhardy and the compulsive.
The older people that one admires seem to be fearless. They go right out into the world. It's astounding. Maybe they can't see or they can't hear, but they walk out into the street and take life as it comes. They're models of courage, in a strange way.
Your determination, selflessness and courage have brought the freedom struggle towards its fulfilment.
Real courage is knowing what faces you and knowing how to face it.
It took me realizing that a broken heart has never actually killed anyone to find the courage to ask for what I want, in just about every situation. That was part of my own growing up.
You live with the fear people might find out. Then you actually have the courage to tell people and they go, I don't think you are gay. It's enough to drive you crazy.
Obama wants to be thought of as the president who freed us from foreign oil. But if he doesn't show some political courage, he may well be remembered as the president who cooked the planet.
The valor and courage of our young women and men in the armed services are a shining example to all of the world, and we owe them and their families our deepest respect.
True courage is like a kite a contrary wind raises it higher.
The only reason I'm in Hollywood is that I don't have the moral courage to refuse the money.
One of the greatest gifts my father gave me - unintentionally - was witnessing the courage with which he bore adversity. We had a bit of a rollercoaster life with some really challenging financial periods. He was always unshaken, completely tranquil, the same ebullient, laughing, jovial man.
One has to have the courage of one's pessimism.
Our film examines the heroism, courage and prowess of the Soviet submarine force in ways never seen before.
Without strength and courage it's really hard to perform at the highest levels of international figure skating, because you're alone on the ice and you only have seven minutes over two nights to prove yourself.
It takes a certain courage and a certain greatness to be truly base.
Until the day of his death, no man can be sure of his courage.
Falsehood is cowardice, the truth courage.
Have the courage to be ignorant of a great number of things, in order to avoid the calamity of being ignorant of everything.
But we got up there and decided to stick to this mix of power chords and funk and that's where it really started for us. In having the courage to take that decision. To take a gamble not just with our music but our lives.
Intellectuals try to keep going. But their situation is very difficult. Those who have had the courage to voice their opposition have often paid a very high price.
I've always been inspired by artists who have shown musical and intellectual curiosity and the courage to take risks.
Courage! I have shown it for years think you I shall lose it at the moment when my sufferings are to end?
There is not a single Muslim leader today who has the courage and commitment to defend Islam and Muslims, they are all in awe of the United States and other Western powers, and are indebted to them.
What makes America amazing is that there have always been men and women of courage who were willing to think more about the future of their children and grandchildren than they did about their own political careers.
When we have done our best, we can, as a united people, take whatever may befall with calm courage and confidence that this old nation will survive and if death should come to many of us, death is not the end.
The 'Bird's Nest' National Stadium, which I helped to conceive, is designed to embody the Olympic spirit of 'fair competition.' It tells people that freedom is possible but needs fairness, courage and strength.
Courage is sometimes frail as hope is frail: a fragile shoot between two stones that grows brave toward the sun though warmth and brightness fail, striving and faith the only strength it knows.
Men was formed for society, and is neither capable of living alone, nor has the courage to do it.
One of the things that makes Hamlet unique among Shakespeare's characters is his courage to face up to the darker elements of his personality.
I'm still shy - I'm no good at my children's parent-teacher conferences, and I'm slowly learning how to ask for what I want. But I now know that I have a reserve of courage to draw upon when I really need it. There's nothing that I'm too scared to have a go at.
Often the test of courage is not to die but to live.
I have always had the courage for the new things that life sometimes offers.
Physical courage is a great test.
In my old age, I have been thinking about this, and I have reached the conclusion that those who have physical courage also have moral courage.
Howard Dean has been successful because he was clear in his opposition to the war. People appreciate a politician with the courage to say, I oppose this war.
No, I am not a homosexual. If I were a homosexual, I would hope I would have the courage to say so. What's cruel is that you are forcing me to say I am not a homosexual. This means you are putting homosexuals down. I don't want to do that.
Ingenuity, plus courage, plus work, equals miracles.
How many women have the courage to start properly with a cold, cold bath early in the morning? I jump in, throw the water, cold as ice, and after the first plunge I am happy.
You take a number of small steps which you believe are right, thinking maybe tomorrow somebody will treat this as a dangerous provocation. And then you wait. If there is no reaction, you take another step: courage is only an accumulation of small steps.
With courage and character, American soldiers continue to put themselves on the line to defend our freedom, and so many have paid the ultimate sacrifice.
I hope America can also be the cultural leader of the world, and use this frontier spirit to lead and show others that we need courage to go places where we have not gone before.
Australia is a nation of compassion. Courage and compassion. And the third of these great values: resilience.
You want to shut up every Negro who has the courage to stand up and fight for the rights of his people, for the rights of workers, and I have been on many a picket line for the steelworkers too.
I know that throughout their history, the people of the United States defended their freedom, their liberty, their justice, and their rights - if need be - with their lives. I think their courage is so admirable.
War is fear cloaked in courage.
Love makes a subtle man out of a crude one, it gives eloquence to the mute, it gives courage the cowardly and makes the idle quick and sharp.
Heroes to me are guys that sit in libraries. They absorb knowledge and then the risks they take are calculated on the basis of the courage it took to become replete with knowledge.
The courage of a soldier is heightened by his knowledge of his profession.
Such decisions will be far reaching and difficult. But you never lacked courage in the past. Your courage is now needed for the future.
Courage: Great Russian word, fit for the songs of our children's children, pure on their tongues, and free.
Courage is never to let your actions be influenced by your fears.
To me, there is no greater act of courage than being the one who kisses first.
A life lesson for me is, how do you muster the courage to take on a new risk? Whether it's starting up a business or taking on a new project or expedition. I think the risks that we take are all relative to the risk-taker.
Maybe you will be afraid and maybe you will fail, but the courage to take risks in any part of your life is, I feel, a very worthwhile way to live.
When I was straight, I had the courage and energy to become an actress. I owe my career to my will to stop using.
The one thing I learned the most about acting is it takes a tremendous amount of courage to go there and stand still. It takes courage and guts to step out of your mind frame and depict something.
Courage to continue comes from deeper sources than outward results.
There are always a few who stand up in times of communal madness and have the courage to say that what unites us is greater than what divides us.
September 11, 2001, revealed heroism in ordinary people who might have gone through their lives never called upon to demonstrate the extent of their courage.
Each of us has an inner dream that we can unfold if we will just have the courage to admit what it is. And the faith to trust our own admission. The admitting is often very difficult.
You must have love as the core it takes courage to be willing to constantly tell the truth to each other and risk letting the relationship go.
Courage is a peculiar kind of fear.
An able, disinterested, public-spirited press, with trained intelligence to know the right and courage to do it, can preserve that public virtue without which popular government is a sham and a mockery.
Courage is... the knowledge of how to fear what ought to be feared and how not to fear what ought not to be feared.
It takes both courage and talent to stand up in front of fellow human beings and make them crack a smile, and at the same time keep it clean.
Wisdom, prudence, forethought, these are essential. But not second to these that noble courage which adventures the right, and leaves the consequences to God.
These rules may seem simple enough, but it will require great morale and physical courage to adhere to them. But if carried out in the strict sense of the word it will surely lead to a greater success than could otherwise be attained.
Keep courage. Whatever you do, do not feel sorry for yourself. You will win in a great age of opportunity.
I find fault with my children because I like them and I want them to go places - uprightness and strength and courage and civil respect and anything that affects the probabilities of failure on the part of those that are closest to me, that concerns me - I find fault.
Leadership requires the courage to make decisions that will benefit the next generation.
There's only one thing worse than a man who doesn't have strong likes and dislikes, and that's a man who has strong likes and dislikes without the courage to voice them.
Therefore, don't let sinners take courage to think they will be favoured like the thief on the cross for we see on the other side, they may be like the hardened one, and reproach death itself.
Once I had all the facts in, I found I didn't have the immoral courage to pull the caper. So I wrote it as a story. As a teenager, I didn't have any skills for writing as such, so it came out in 1500 words.
Everybody, even me, sometimes had to compromise on something, doing things we know to be wrong, and this happens doing whatever job in the world. But a singer must have the courage of saying no.
Part of courage is simple consistency.
Whether you be man or woman you will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor.
It has been my honor to support and work with President Barack Obama, a man who has brought courage and character to the presidency. President Obama's strength of character leads him to do the right thing, even when it isn't the easy thing.
We had no more courage than Harriet Tubman or Marcus Garvey had in their times. We just had a more vulnerable enemy.
Pugnacity is a form of courage, but a very bad form.
The President regards the Japanese as a brave people but courage, though useful in time of war, is subordinate to knowledge of arts hence, courage without such knowledge is not to be highly esteemed.
The world will step aside for nearly anyone who has the courage of his of her opinions.
If one suffers we all suffer. Togetherness is strength. Courage.
I started to send my work to journals when I was 26, which was just a question of when I got the courage up. They were mostly journals I had been reading for the previous six or seven years.
It is up to African leaders to show their will and political courage in order to assure that this new pan-African institution becomes an efficient instrument and not a place for endless discussions.
Had we lived I should have had a tale to tell of the hardihood, endurance and courage of my companions which would have stirred the heart of every Englishman. These rough notes and our dead bodies must tell the tale.
We know the threats - from global terrorist networks to the spread of deadly weapons. Yet we also know that embedded in this time of danger is the promise of a new day, if we have the courage and commitment to work together.
Remember that when you meet your antagonist, to do everything in a mild agreeable manner. Let your courage be keen, but, at the same time, as polished as your sword.
I saw courage both in the Vietnam War and in the struggle to stop it. I learned that patriotism includes protest, not just military service.
Peace is a fragile thing. It takes courage to secure it. It takes wisdom to maintain it.
President Obama and our all-of-the-above energy strategy is the real deal. We are proud of the fact that we are importing less oil than at any time in modern history, and it has been because of the president's vision and courage.
Grave was the man in years, in looks, in word, his locks were grey, yet was his courage green.
The people of South Carolina support conservatives who are trying to push real change, and the people of South Carolina expect their presidential candidates to back them up when they show courage.
I'll know how to die with courage that is easier than living.
I fear some of our leaders today have lost the courage to stand up. What we have now are politicians. They won't offer real plans, and only stand up when they want to blame someone else.
As the first Hispanic female governor in history, little girls often come up to me in the grocery store or the mall. They look and point, and when they get the courage, they ask 'Are you Susana?' and they run up and give me a hug.
A leader must have the courage to act against an expert's advice.
It takes a great deal of courage to follow another person's lead.
The courage in journalism is sticking up for the unpopular, not the popular.
Well, number one I like dancing. Number two I knew it would be challenging because I had never done this type of dance before. I always wanted to and I happened to have the courage to go out there and give it my best shot.
With his trademark courage and conviction, President Reagan led us out of the Cold War, spreading his vision of freedom, resulting in the release of millions of people from the yoke of communism.
Paul persuaded me to join the band. I would never have had the courage otherwise. It was fun at the beginning. We were playing just for fun, with Paul's group.
I think laughter may be a form of courage. As humans we sometimes stand tall and look into the sun and laugh, and I think we are never more brave than when we do that.
When we read stories of heroes, we identify with them. We take the journey with them. We see how the obstacles almost overcome them. We see how they grow as human beings or gain qualities or show great qualities of strength and courage and with them, we grow in some small way.
My sword I give to him that shall succeed me in my pilgrimage, and my courage and skill to him that can get it.
Have the courage of your desire.
I wish we lived in a society that made it safe and provided the courage for everyone to come out.
Now that I've got some films under my belt, I have the courage of my convictions regarding acting. It gives me a leg to stand on.
The quality that defines us as Americans is the courage to respond to being hit. The courage to root out and destroy the killers. And, most importantly, the courage to hold on to our values and protect our hard-won freedoms while doing it.
Courage is very important. Like a muscle, it is strengthened by use.
Love is the most difficult and dangerous form of courage. Courage is the most desperate, admirable and noble kind of love.
I love Joan Collins. She's a wonderful lady. She has such courage. She's such a good actress.
I have three favorite politicians: Reagan, Truman, and Bobby Kennedy - Bobby for showing remarkable political courage despite being loathed by many on both sides.
More firm and sure the hand of courage strikes, when it obeys the watchful eye of caution.
That's what acting is - it's about... having the courage to allow your audience into the private moments of your characters' lives.
The criteria for serving one's country should be competence, courage and willingness to serve. When we deny people the chance to serve because of their sexual orientation, we deprive them of their rights of citizenship, and we deprive our armed forces the service of willing and capable Americans.
We had every problems starting a big top could have. The tent fell down on the first day. We had problems getting people into the shows. It was only with the courage and arrogance of youth that we survived.
The word courage - God, I love that word. Words are so important to me.
Just two weeks ago, millions of Iraqis defied the threats of terrorists and went to the polls to determine their own future. I congratulate the Iraqi people for the courage they've shown in making these elections so successful.
Presumption should never make us neglect that which appears easy to us, nor despair make us lose courage at the sight of difficulties.
No man in the world has more courage than the man who can stop after eating one peanut.
I admired Eugene McCarthy's courage and although I left his Senate staff after four years to accept a job as the researcher on the editorial page of the 'Washington Post,' I remained an admirer.
A man of courage flees forward, in the midst of new things.
When somebody who makes movies for a living - either as an actor, writer, producer or director - lives to be a certain age, you have to admire them. It is an act of courage to make a film - a courage for which you are not prepared in the rest of life. It is very hard and very destructive. But we do it because we love it.
With faith and courage, generations of Armenians have overcome great suffering and proudly preserved their culture, traditions, and religion and have told the story of the genocide to an often indifferent world.
I think that people need to have the courage of their convictions and not be trying to fool people into thinking that they've changed overnight.
Our young people have come to look upon war as a kind of beneficent deity, which not only adds to the national honor but uplifts a nation and develops patriotism and courage.
Well, I think that - I think leadership's always been about two main things: imagination and courage.
I'm a writer of faith who worries about the intolerance of religion. I look at the past and fear we haven't learned from it. I believe that humanity is capable of evil as well as great acts of courage and goodness. I have hope. Deep down, I believe in the human spirit, although sometimes that belief is shaken.
Most of the good executives do pretty well. Because to be a good executive you have to be strong, and you have to have a simple attribute that people have forgotten about - courage.
Freedom. And Justice. If you have those two, it covers everything. You must stick to those principles and have the courage of your convictions.
Because at bottom, I'm interested in fear, and in courage and cowardice and these are easier to get at through fiction, where you can enter people's heads.
Before I begin talking about the threats we face, the vulnerabilities that we have, and frankly the courage of the men and women in uniform that stand in harm's way on behalf of a very grateful Nation, let me first honor the sacrifices of September 11.
Those who are rooted in the depths that are eternal and unchangeable and who rely on unshakeable principles, face change full of courage, courage based on faith.
Throughout the years, many Christian women have told me of their great respect for the bravery and courage evident in my work, perhaps even gesturing to their own Isis earrings or a Nile River Goddess pendants.
There is a measure needing courage to adopt and enforce it, which I believe to be of virtue sufficient to redeem the nation in this its darkest hour: one only I know of no other to which we may rationally trust for relief from impending dangers without and within.
I pray they will carry on in spite of that dreadful monster prejudice, and with patience, courage, fortitude and perseverance achieve success for themselves.
It takes courage to know when you ought to be afraid.
For as long as this nation has known war, we have embraced the heroes it has produced. Americans have rightfully noted the honor and nobility of courage under hostile fire and thanked those who perished in their defense.
Anyone can support a team that is winning - it takes no courage. But to stand behind a team to defend a team when it is down and really needs you, that takes a lot of courage.
Through the inspiration of Vaclav's words, the courage of his dissidence and the integrity of his leadership, Czechoslovakia successfully transitioned from an authoritarian state to a free democracy at the heart of Europe.
Most of man's problems upon this planet, in the long history of the race, have been met and solved either partially or as a whole by experiment based on common sense and carried out with courage.
Although the war in which you fought took place more than half-a-century ago, your courage, your sacrifice and your patriotism reaches through the decades and inspires us today.
Optimism is the foundation of courage.
Americans are gathering the courage to just say no. We are saying no to addictive consumer lifestyles. We are saying no to wars and corporate takeover and the IMF loans that gobble up people and their resources.
As a gay Jewish white South African, I belong to quite a lot of minority groups. You constantly have to question who you are, what you are and whether you have the courage to be who you are.
To go to hospitals and see people fight and overcome cystic fibrosis or cancer or any number of illnesses is to see courage that is humbling. And athletes constantly need to be humbled.
The British were indeed very far superior to the Americans in every respect necessary to military operations, except the revivified courage and resolution, the result of sudden success after despair.
Yes, you must have the courage of being free.
Throughout the history of our young nation, we have seen our military go bravely into battle, armed with courage and willing to make the ultimate sacrifice.
I think what I would say to my younger self, and probably to younger, just starting-out writers is that a lot of times you're just afraid to put yourself out there, and it's uncomfortable because it's working up the courage to do something, to push yourself to do those things.
Rosa Parks' courage, determination, and tenacity continue to be an inspiration to all those committed to non-violent protest and change nearly half a century later.
It is so often true that whether a person carries with him an atmosphere of gloom and depression or one of confidence and courage depends on his individual outlook.
To see what is right and not to do it is want of courage, or of principle.
The problem is when you are writing something in retrospective, it needs a lot of courage not to change, or you will forget a certain reality, and you will just take in consideration your view today.
The qualities of an exceptional cook are akin to those of a successful tightrope walker: an abiding passion for the task, courage to go out on a limb and an impeccable sense of balance.
In short, we need to recover the courage we celebrate in our heroes, and in particular, the courage to tolerate, for the sake of a free society, a level of risk we hardly ever imagined in the past.
It is a wise man who knows where courage ends and stupidity begins.
I try to be a truthful artist and I try to show a level of courage. I enjoy that. I'm a messenger.
Courage is the fear of being thought a coward.
The right response to the non-problem of global warming is to have the courage to do nothing.
In the inhalation and exhalation there is an energy and a lively divine spirit, since He, through his spirit supports the breath of life, giving courage to the people who are in the earth and spirit to those who walk on it.
Let me start with Yahoo. As we meet today, a Chinese citizen who had the courage to speak his mind on the Internet is in prison because Yahoo chose to share his name and address with the Chinese Government.
Courage is action, not talk.
It is our conduct, our patriotism and belief in our American way of life, our courage that will win the final battle.
Remember in 1973 the same science chatter said that the coming Ice Age is going to occur, we're going to lose millions of people. And the politicians knew how to solve it, they just didn't have the courage to solve it they were going to put coal dust on the Arctic.
Let who will boast their courage in the field, I find but little safety from my shield, Nature's, not honour's law we must obey: This made me cast my useless shield away.
It was actually a women's writing group I belonged to in graduate school that gave me the courage to move from poetry to fiction.
As long as the opposition believes the world will stand with Ukraine's democrat reformers, they will have the leverage and the courage to establish a legitimate republic under the leadership of Viktor Yushchenko.
It would be sad if we lost our instinct and our courage to love and protect.
I think the moments that are difficult for anybody are when you see what your life could be, if only you had the courage to take the steps needed.
Farrah Fawcett had courage, she had strength, and she had faith.
I have written a memoir here and there, and that takes its own form of selfishness and courage. However, generally speaking, I have no interest in writing about my own life or intruding in the privacy of those around me.
I know what real courage is, and I understand true compassion.
My talent is such that no undertaking, however vast in size... has ever surpassed my courage.
And as a child I was filled with passionate admiration for acts of civic courage I had seen performed by an elderly military doctor, who was a friend of my family.
The single outstanding exception was the broad yet precise mandate communicated by the General Assembly in 1946 to prepare as soon as possible the Charter of Human Rights which the San Francisco Conference had not had the time or the courage to draw up.
It often takes more courage to change one's opinion than to keep it.
We must remind Americans that the promise of opportunity remains unbroken - that every person in this great nation can succeed through hard work, courage and personal responsibility.
Courage is always the surest wisdom.
One of the marks of a gift is to have the courage of it.
But after this natural burst of indignation, no man of sense, courage, or prudence will waste his time or his strength in retrospective reproaches or repinings.
I think the Iraqi people have shown extraordinary patience and courage in the last few months. They have really put a political system on the way to success, to a real democracy here.
Freedom is a system based on courage.
In this work I have received the opposition of a number of men who only advocate the unobtainable because the immediately possible is beyond their moral courage, administrative ability, and their political prescience.
With honesty of purpose, balance, a respect for tradition, courage, and, above all, a philosophy of life, any young person who embraces the historical profession will find it rich in rewards and durable in satisfaction.
I would kiss you, had I the courage.
One of the hardest questions I have been asked is 'How will you manage the army if you are having menstrual cramps?' I have also been asked if I will have the courage to face criminals. My answer is that courage is not a matter of gender.
It is remarkable that this people, though unarmed, dares attack an armed foe the infantry defy the cavalry, and by their activity and courage generally prove victors.
With Pearl Jam, everybody is so good at what they do, it's hard to get up the courage to say, Can I sing this part, or, I want to play guitar. I feel like I have more courage to do that.
I'm not a fighter, but I would love to be a boxer because I love the courage and toughness. I mean, there can be nothing more terrifying than walking into an arena and looking at Mike Tyson in the ring.
But steel bars have never yet kept out a mob it takes something a good deal stronger: human courage backed up by the consciousness of being right.
During the long process of history, by relying on our own diligence, courage and wisdom, Chinese people have opened up a good and beautiful home where all ethnic groups live in harmony and fostered an excellent culture that never fades.
I've decided to run for the U.S. Senate because I believe Wisconsin families need a senator who will work hard to deliver results for the middle class - a leader with the courage to do what's right, no matter how tough the odds or how powerful the special interests we have to fight.
Ofttimes the test of courage becomes rather to live than to die.
I like so much wearing heels, legs look so much better, everything looks better. But it's only recently I've had the courage to do that.
Courage is just fear, plus prayers, plus understanding.
Ronald Reagan's well documented final battles with Alzheimer's disease were fought with the same conviction and courage that his many public battles were fought.
The man who has the courage of his platitudes is always a successful man.
In our film profession you may have Gable's looks, Tracy's art, Marlene's legs or Liz's violet eyes, but they don't mean a thing without that swinging thing called courage.
To show the world what long experience gains, requires not courage, though it calls for pains but at life's outset to inform mankind is a bold effort of a valiant mind.
War paralyzes your courage and deadens the spirit of true manhood.
None speak of the bravery, the might, or the intellect of Jesus but the devil is always imagined as a being of acute intellect, political cunning, and the fiercest courage. These universal and instinctive tendencies of the human mind reveal much.
Men who live valiantly and die nobly have a strength and a courage from the eternal Father.
True courage is a result of reasoning. A brave mind is always impregnable.
It may not be the most popular but there is a place for it. I think about the kind of music I love, acoustic, melodic, and I guess it kind of took a bit of courage on my part to think I could be one of those songwriters.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a time to honor the greatest champion of racial equality who taught a nation - through compassion and courage - about democracy, nonviolence and racial justice.
It takes far less courage to kill yourself than it takes to make yourself wake up one more time. It's harder to stay where you are than to get out. For everyone but you, that is.
There is no glory in war, yet from the blackness of its history, there emerge vivid colours of human character and courage. Those who risked their lives to help their friends.
Courage to be is the key to revelatory power of the feminist revolution.
I took my courage in both hands and went to the Laundromat to do my washing. I had to use three machines.
I love revolutionaries who have the courage to stand up against the status quo. They're always misunderstood, but they're the ones who are standing up for human rights.
To bathe a cat takes brute force, perseverance, courage of conviction - and a cat. The last ingredient is usually hardest to come by.
The memoirs that have come out of Africa are sometimes startlingly beautiful, often urgent, and essentially life-affirming, but they are all performances of courage and honesty.
Give the people not hell, but hope and courage.
Courage ought to have eyes as well as arms.
Whatever enlarges hope will also exalt courage.
Someone once told me the one thread that runs through them all is a premium on personal courage - not intellectual courage, but just plain physical courage.
They put me in a harness, like a horse, to learn the back somersault. It was weird up there when I put on that harness for the first time. The courage came with practice.
There has to be this pioneer, the individual who has the courage, the ambition to overcome the obstacles that always develop when one tries to do something worthwhile, especially when it is new and different.
If we can't have the courage to tell our constituents, hey, we've got to cut back, then if we can point to something and say, I would like to vote for more benefits for you, but this balanced budget amendment or statutory spending cap or whatever the device is, is preventing me from doing it.
If you set as your goal to roll back the size of government, you have an obligation to answer the tough questions and show real courage, not just appeal to ideology. Treat the voters like adults.
The presidents of colleges have to have some courage to step forward. You can't limit alcohol in college sports, you have to get rid of it.
What I love about the East End is that there's a great perseverance, determination and courage. What I dislike about it is that there is sometimes a celebration of ignorance.
Morality may consist solely in the courage of making a choice.
Necessity does the work of courage.
Even within the last three or four years, I have a greater ability to communicate, I think. I have more courage to show the stuff... And it does take courage.
Courage is rightly esteemed the first of human qualities - because it is the quality which guarantees all others.
A man of character in peace is a man of courage in war.
My definition of courage is never letting anyone define you.
If I am to be known for anything, I would like it to be for encouraging Canadians, for knowing a little bit about their daily, extraordinary courage. And for wanting that courage to be recognized.
We simply do not understand our place in the universe and have not the courage to admit it.
It's up to the courage of the filmmakers to make art in cinema, not just business. John was rejected by studios, he borrowed money and did movies with his own money. You're either courageous or not. You have to find a way.
I know this president. And I can tell you that he cares deeply about the next generation of young women in this country - his daughters, and everyone's daughters. President Obama had the courage to stand with Sandra Fluke. Without hesitation, he defended her right to tell her story.
People don't follow titles, they follow courage.
Moral courage is higher and a rarer virtue than physical courage.
Support the strong, give courage to the timid, remind the indifferent, and warn the opposed.
Greatness, in the last analysis, is largely bravery - courage in escaping from old ideas and old standards and respectable ways of doing things.
I emphasize... that the Harrimans showed great courage and loyalty and confidence in us, because three or four of us were really running the business, the day to day business.
Have the courage to face a difficulty lest it kick you harder than you bargain for.
To him that waits all things reveal themselves, provided that he has the courage not to deny, in the darkness, what he has seen in the light.
There's no mystique to acting. It's only common sense - and a bit of courage.
Resignation is the courage of Christian sorrow.
There can be a fundamental gulf of gracelessness in a human heart which neither our love nor our courage can bridge.
I know that if I'd had to go and take an exam for acting, I wouldn't have got anywhere. You don't take exams for acting, you take your courage.
You cannot build character and courage by taking away a man's initiative and independence.
I want to encourage our people, to educate our people to have the courage to understand and fight for their rights.
A man who won't die for something is not fit to live.
To be idle is a short road to death and to be diligent is a way of life foolish people are idle, wise people are diligent.
The fear of death is the most unjustified of all fears, for there's no risk of accident for someone who's dead.
The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.
Death is no more than passing from one room into another. But there's a difference for me, you know. Because in that other room I shall be able to see.
What we have done for ourselves alone dies with us what we have done for others and the world remains and is immortal.
I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it.
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new.
Our dead are never dead to us, until we have forgotten them.
While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning how to die.
Life is hard. Then you die. Then they throw dirt in your face. Then the worms eat you. Be grateful it happens in that order.
Suicide is man's way of telling God, 'You can't fire me - I quit.'
I saw few die of hunger of eating, a hundred thousand.
Death most resembles a prophet who is without honor in his own land or a poet who is a stranger among his people.
Let no one weep for me, or celebrate my funeral with mourning for I still live, as I pass to and fro through the mouths of men.
The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.
The day which we fear as our last is but the birthday of eternity.
Die, v.: To stop sinning suddenly.
A friend who dies, it's something of you who dies.
No one can confidently say that he will still be living tomorrow.
They tell us that suicide is the greatest piece of cowardice... that suicide is wrong when it is quite obvious that there is nothing in the world to which every man has a more unassailable title than to his own life and person.
I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure.
For death is no more than a turning of us over from time to eternity.
A dying man needs to die, as a sleepy man needs to sleep, and there comes a time when it is wrong, as well as useless, to resist.
Dying is easy, it's living that scares me to death.
Death will be a great relief. No more interviews.
I decided to devote my life to telling the story because I felt that having survived I owe something to the dead. and anyone who does not remember betrays them again.
I am become death, the destroyer of worlds.
I've told my children that when I die, to release balloons in the sky to celebrate that I graduated. For me, death is a graduation.
Those who have the strength and the love to sit with a dying patient in the silence that goes beyond words will know that this moment is neither frightening nor painful, but a peaceful cessation of the functioning of the body.
Man always dies before he is fully born.
From my rotting body, flowers shall grow and I am in them and that is eternity.
When you're dead, you're dead. That's it.
I had seen birth and death but had thought they were different.
Death is a very dull, dreary affair, and my advice to you is to have nothing whatsoever to do with it.
Because of indifference, one dies before one actually dies.
Millions long for immortality who don't know what to do with themselves on a rainy Sunday afternoon.
Call no man happy till he is dead.
Do not fear death so much but rather the inadequate life.
Cursed is the man who dies, but the evil done by him survives.
A man does not die of love or his liver or even of old age he dies of being a man.
Birth and death we all move between these two unknowns.
Some people are so afraid do die that they never begin to live.
Life is better than death, I believe, if only because it is less boring, and because it has fresh peaches in it.
To himself everyone is immortal he may know that he is going to die, but he can never know that he is dead.
Pale Death beats equally at the poor man's gate and at the palaces of kings.
Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark and as that natural fear in children is increased by tales, so is the other.
Since the day of my birth, my death began its walk. It is walking toward me, without hurrying.
It is possible to provide security against other ills, but as far as death is concerned, we men live in a city without walls.
The dead cannot cry out for justice. It is a duty of the living to do so for them.
The timing of death, like the ending of a story, gives a changed meaning to what preceded it.
Of all the gods only death does not desire gifts.
"Tis very certain the desire of life prolongs it.;Lord Byron;death
13333;Time rushes towards us with its hospital tray of infinitely varied narcotics, even while it is preparing us for its inevitably fatal operation.;Tennessee Williams;death
13334;Love and death are the two great hinges on which all human sympathies turn.;B. R. Hayden;death
13335;Everything that gets born dies.;Morrie Schwartz;death
13336;Some men are alive simply because it is against the law to kill them.;E. W. Howe;death
13337;The idea is to die young as late as possible.;Ashley Montagu;death
13338;Death is the last enemy: once we've got past that I think everything will be alright.;Alice Thomas Ellis;death
13339;I shall not die of a cold. I shall die of having lived.;Willa Cather;death
13340;All our knowledge merely helps us to die a more painful death than animals that know nothing.;Maurice Maeterlinck;death
13341;Healthy children will not fear life if their elders have integrity enough not to fear death.;Erik H. Erikson;death
13342;Nothing that is really good and God-like dies.;Ernst Moritz Arndt;death
13343;Death borders upon our birth, and our cradle stands in the grave.;Joseph Hall;death
13344;Any man who has $10,000 left when he dies is a failure.;Errol Flynn;death
13345;The words of a dead man are modified in the guts of the living.;W. H. Auden;death
13346;Death is always around the corner, but often our society gives it inordinate help.;Carter Burwell;death
13347;Man dies of cold, not of darkness.;Miguel de Unamuno;death
13348;All architects want to live beyond their deaths.;Philip Johnson;death
13349;He who doesn't fear death dies only once.;Giovanni Falcone;death
13350;It was a time when only the dead smiled, happy in their peace.;Anna Akhmatova;death
13351;If you don't have any fight in you, you might as well be dead.;Scott Caan;death
13352;Even at our birth, death does but stand aside a little. And every day he looks towards us and muses somewhat to himself whether that day or the next he will draw nigh.;Robert Bolt;death
13353;Death's in the good-bye.;Anne Sexton;death
13354;For me, habit is just a synonym for death.;Juliette Binoche;death
13355;He who is completely sanctified, or cleansed from all sin, and dies in this state, is fit for glory.;Adam Clarke;death
13356;We cannot banish dangers, but we can banish fears. We must not demean life by standing in awe of death.;David Sarnoff;death
13357;When faith is lost, when honor dies, the man is dead.;John Greenleaf Whittier;death
13358;John Candy knew he was going to die. He told me on his 40th birthday. He said, well, Maureen, I'm on borrowed time.;Maureen O'Hara;death
13359;Hell, madam, is to love no longer.;Georges Bernanos;death
13360;Death is the tyrant of the imagination.;Barry Cornwall;death
13361;The death of what's dead is the birth of what's living.;Arlo Guthrie;death
13362;Tradition demands that we not speak poorly of the dead.;Daniel Barenboim;death
13363;Fling but a stone, the giant dies.;Matthew Green;death
13364;I do not agree with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right to say it.;Voltaire;death
13365;A nation or civilization that continues to produce soft-minded men purchases its own spiritual death on the installment plan.;Martin Luther King, Jr.;death
13366;I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but they whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.;Leonardo da Vinci;death
13367;People fear death even more than pain. It's strange that they fear death. Life hurts a lot more than death. At the point of death, the pain is over. Yeah, I guess it is a friend.;Jim Morrison;death
13368;If physical death is the price that I must pay to free my white brothers and sisters from a permanent death of the spirit, then nothing can be more redemptive.;Martin Luther King, Jr.;death
13369;Intellectual growth should commence at birth and cease only at death.;Albert Einstein;death
13370;Without health life is not life it is only a state of langour and suffering - an image of death.;Buddha;death
13371;The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated.;Mark Twain;death
13372;Even death is not to be feared by one who has lived wisely.;Buddha;death
13373;Courage is being scared to death... and saddling up anyway.;John Wayne;death
13374;Cowards die many times before their deaths the valiant never taste of death but once.;William Shakespeare;death
13375;Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.;Steve Jobs;death
13376;Do the thing you fear most and the death of fear is certain.;Mark Twain;death
13377;I am not afraid of death, I just don't want to be there when it happens.;Woody Allen;death
13378;If you die you're completely happy and your soul somewhere lives on. I'm not afraid of dying. Total peace after death, becoming someone else is the best hope I've got.;Kurt Cobain;death
13379;I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.;Thomas Paine;death
13380;There's no tragedy in life like the death of a child. Things never get back to the way they were.;Dwight D. Eisenhower;death
13381;You can change your world by changing your words... Remember, death and life are in the power of the tongue.;Joel Osteen;death
13382;I'm completely in favor of the separation of Church and State. My idea is that these two institutions screw us up enough on their own, so both of them together is certain death.;George Carlin;death
13383;I don't have no fear of death. My only fear is coming back reincarnated.;Tupac Shakur;death
13384;There is no easy walk to freedom anywhere, and many of us will have to pass through the valley of the shadow of death again and again before we reach the mountaintop of our desires.;Nelson Mandela;death
13385;Death makes angels of us all and gives us wings where we had shoulders smooth as ravens claws.;Jim Morrison;death
13386;Life is a process of becoming, a combination of states we have to go through. Where people fail is that they wish to elect a state and remain in it. This is a kind of death.;Anais Nin;death
13387;Love never dies a natural death. It dies because we don't know how to replenish it's source. It dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. It dies of illness and wounds it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.;Anais Nin;death
13388;The only difference between death and taxes is that death doesn't get worse every time Congress meets.;Will Rogers;death
13389;Death is a fearful thing.;William Shakespeare;death
13390;The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, which hurts and is desired.;William Shakespeare;death
13391;Let us all be brave enough to die the death of a martyr, but let no one lust for martyrdom.;Mahatma Gandhi;death
13392;Fear of death makes us devoid both of valour and religion. For want of valour is want of religious faith.;Mahatma Gandhi;death
13393;Death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the nineteenth century that one cannot explain away.;Oscar Wilde;death
13394;I were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion.;William Shakespeare;death
13395;One can survive everything, nowadays, except death, and live down everything except a good reputation.;Oscar Wilde;death
13396;In this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes.;Benjamin Franklin;death
13397;The valiant never taste of death but once.;William Shakespeare;death
13398;Biography lends to death a new terror.;Oscar Wilde;death
13399;Death may be the greatest of all human blessings.;Socrates;death
13400;I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge. That myth is more potent than history. That dreams are more powerful than facts. That hope always triumphs over experience. That laughter is the only cure for grief. And I believe that love is stronger than death.;Robert Fulghum;death
13401;Death comes to all, but great achievements build a monument which shall endure until the sun grows cold.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;death
13402;For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one.;Khalil Gibran;death
13403;I look upon death to be as necessary to our constitution as sleep. We shall rise refreshed in the morning.;Benjamin Franklin;death
13404;We are dying from overthinking. We are slowly killing ourselves by thinking about everything. Think. Think. Think. You can never trust the human mind anyway. It's a death trap.;Anthony Hopkins;death
13405;In spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart. I simply can't build up my hopes on a foundation consisting of confusion, misery and death.;Anne Frank;death
13406;The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?;Edgar Allan Poe;death
13407;Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty, or give me death!;Patrick Henry;death
13408;Death and life have their determined appointments riches and honors depend upon heaven.;Confucius;death
13409;An Atheist believes that a hospital should be built instead of a church. An atheist believes that deed must be done instead of prayer said. An atheist strives for involvement in life and not escape into death. He wants disease conquered, poverty vanished, war eliminated.;Madalyn Murray O'Hair;death
13410;To run away from trouble is a form of cowardice and, while it is true that the suicide braves death, he does it not for some noble object but to escape some ill.;Aristotle;death
13411;When your time comes to die, be not like those whose hearts are filled with fear of death, so that when their time comes they weep and pray for a little more time to live their lives over again in a different way. Sing your death song, and die like a hero going home.;Tecumseh;death
13412;Life and death are one thread, the same line viewed from different sides.;Lao Tzu;death
13413;If we don't know life, how can we know death?;Confucius;death
13414;Do the thing we fear, and death of fear is certain.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;death
13415;It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.;Marcus Aurelius;death
13416;If my survival caused another to perish, then death would be sweeter and more beloved.;Khalil Gibran;death
13417;Death is a challenge. It tells us not to waste time... It tells us to tell each other right now that we love each other.;Leo Buscaglia;death
13418;The appeal of cinema lies in the fear of death.;Jim Morrison;death
13419;Each day is a little life: every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death.;Arthur Schopenhauer;death
13420;The 'kingdom of Heaven' is a condition of the heart - not something that comes 'upon the earth' or 'after death."
Whenever death may surprise us, let it be welcome if our battle cry has reached even one receptive ear and another hand reaches out to take up our arms.
One death is a tragedy one million is a statistic.
Let us beware of saying that death is the opposite of life. The living being is only a species of the dead, and a very rare species.
Ordinary people seem not to realize that those who really apply themselves in the right way to philosophy are directly and of their own accord preparing themselves for dying and death.
Look, I don't want to wax philosophic, but I will say that if you're alive you've got to flap your arms and legs, you've got to jump around a lot, for life is the very opposite of death, and therefore you must at very least think noisy and colorfully, or you're not alive.
There is no lonelier man in death, except the suicide, than that man who has lived many years with a good wife and then outlived her. If two people love each other there can be no happy end to it.
People living deeply have no fear of death.
I postpone death by living, by suffering, by error, by risking, by giving, by losing.
Death is nothing, but to live defeated and inglorious is to die daily.
Death is caused by swallowing small amounts of saliva over a long period of time.
The death of a beautiful woman, is unquestionably the most poetical topic in the world.
Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys look on them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.
I have thought there was some advantage even in death, by which we mingle with the herd of common men.
At a formal dinner party, the person nearest death should always be seated closest to the bathroom.
No evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death.
Life levels all men. Death reveals the eminent.
If you believe in God, believe in Death Row East.
Absence and death are the same - only that in death there is no suffering.
For centuries the death penalty, often accompanied by barbarous refinements, has been trying to hold crime in check yet crime persists. Why? Because the instincts that are warring in man are not, as the law claims, constant forces in a state of equilibrium.
It is better to risk starving to death then surrender. If you give up on your dreams, what's left?
Men are convinced of your arguments, your sincerity, and the seriousness of your efforts only by your death.
Love, we say, is life but love without hope and faith is agonizing death.
Death is not the worst that can happen to men.
There will one day spring from the brain of science a machine or force so fearful in its potentialities, so absolutely terrifying, that even man, the fighter, who will dare torture and death in order to inflict torture and death, will be appalled, and so abandon war forever.
It is not the end of the physical body that should worry us. Rather, our concern must be to live while we're alive - to release our inner selves from the spiritual death that comes with living behind a facade designed to conform to external definitions of who and what we are.
We get into the habit of living before acquiring the habit of thinking. In that race which daily hastens us towards death, the body maintains its irreparable lead.
Death is not extinguishing the light it is only putting out the lamp because the dawn has come.
There will be no lasting peace either in the heart of individuals or in social customs until death is outlawed.
A belief in hell and the knowledge that every ambition is doomed to frustration at the hands of a skeleton have never prevented the majority of human beings from behaving as though death were no more than an unfounded rumor.
You hear a lot about God these days: God, the beneficent God, the all-great God, the Almighty God, the most powerful God, the giver of life God, the creator of death. I mean, we're hearing about God all the time, so we better learn how to deal with it. But if we know anything about God, God is arbitrary.
Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we live.
Life is pleasant. Death is peaceful. It's the transition that's troublesome.
The safest course is to do nothing against one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and have no fear from death.
Death solves all problems - no man, no problem.
Death to me means nothing as long as I can die fast.
Bullfighting is the only art in which the artist is in danger of death and in which the degree of brilliance in the performance is left to the fighter's honor.
Fear of death increases in exact proportion to increase in wealth.
We cast away priceless time in dreams, born of imagination, fed upon illusion, and put to death by reality.
As a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.
Achieving life is not the equivalent of avoiding death.
Death is a release from the impressions of the senses, and from desires that make us their puppets, and from the vagaries of the mind, and from the hard service of the flesh.
Madame, all stories, if continued far enough, end in death, and he is no true-story teller who would keep that from you.
Know one knows whether death, which people fear to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good.
Personally, I would be delighted if there were a life after death, especially if it permitted me to continue to learn about this world and others, if it gave me a chance to discover how history turns out.
Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?
I simply can't build my hopes on a foundation of confusion, misery and death... I think... peace and tranquillity will return again.
It is vain for the coward to flee death follows close behind it is only by defying it that the brave escape.
A useless life is an early death.
Dependency is death to initiative, to risk-taking and opportunity. It's time to stop the spread of government dependency and fight it like the poison it is.
Despise not death, but welcome it, for nature wills it like all else.
Give me liberty or give me death.
Death is a commingling of eternity with time in the death of a good man, eternity is seen looking through time.
Because I could not stop for death, He kindly stopped for me The carriage held but just ourselves and immortality.
In India we only read about death, sickness, terrorism, crime.
The death of my father is probably the biggest thing that I ever faced. Daddy and I were best friends.
As long as your body is healthy and under control and death is distant, try to save your soul when death is immanent what can you do?
We all pay for life with death, so everything in between should be free.
If a man can bridge the gap between life and death, if he can live on after he's dead, then maybe he was a great man.
I'm not afraid of death, but I'm in no hurry to die. I have so much I want to do first.
Death, like birth, is a secret of Nature.
There are worse things in life than death. Have you ever spent an evening with an insurance salesman?
An unused life is an early death.
Justifying conscription to promote the cause of liberty is one of the most bizarre notions ever conceived by man! Forced servitude, with the risk of death and serious injury as a price to live free, makes no sense.
Death is not an event in life: we do not live to experience death. If we take eternity to mean not infinite temporal duration but timelessness, then eternal life belongs to those who live in the present.
If death meant just leaving the stage long enough to change costume and come back as a new character, would you slow down? Or speed up?
When we have lost everything, including hope, life becomes a disgrace, and death a duty.
Whether you like it or not, you're forced to come to the realisation that death is out there. But I don't fear death, I'm a fatalist. I believe when it's your time, that's it. It's the hand you're dealt.
In our brief national history we have shot four of our presidents, worried five of them to death, impeached one and hounded another out of office. And when all else fails, we hold an election and assassinate their character.
There's something about death that is comforting. The thought that you could die tomorrow frees you to appreciate your life now.
I've been looking at some video clips on YouTube of President Obama - then candidate Obama - going through Iowa making promises. The gap between his promises and his performance is the largest I've seen, well, since the Kardashian wedding and the promise of 'til death do we part.
Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankind And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls it tolls for thee.
The death of democracy is not likely to be an assassination from ambush. It will be a slow extinction from apathy, indifference, and undernourishment.
Absolute silence leads to sadness. It is the image of death.
Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.
There is no such thing as inner peace. There is only nervousness or death. Any attempt to prove otherwise constitutes unacceptable behavior.
After your death you will be what you were before your birth.
Death is the solution to all problems. No man - no problem.
Death is a distant rumor to the young.
Foolish men imagine that because judgment for an evil thing is delayed, there is no justice but only accident here below. Judgment for an evil thing is many times delayed some day or two, some century or two, but it is sure as life, it is sure as death.
He who is the author of a war lets loose the whole contagion of hell and opens a vein that bleeds a nation to death.
Drown in a cold vat of whiskey? Death, where is thy sting?
I know not what others may choose but, as for me, give me liberty or give me death.
Guilt is perhaps the most painful companion of death.
I love the name of honor, more than I fear death.
The U.S. couldn't even get rid of Saddam Hussein. And we all know that the EU is just a passing fad. They'll be killing each other again in less than a year. I'm sick to death of all these fascist lawsuits.
"Tis the business of little minds to shrink but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.;Thomas Paine;death
13507;If I think more about death than some other people, it is probably because I love life more than they do.;Angelina Jolie;death
13508;Love is anterior to life, posterior to death, initial of creation, and the exponent of breath.;Emily Dickinson;death
13509;Of all escape mechanisms, death is the most efficient.;Henry Ward Beecher;death
13510;I had reasoned this out in my mind, there was one of two things I had a right to, liberty or death if I could not have one, I would have the other.;Harriet Tubman;death
13511;No matter how prepared you think you are for the death of a loved one, it still comes as a shock, and it still hurts very deeply.;Billy Graham;death
13512;Even very young children need to be informed about dying. Explain the concept of death very carefully to your child. This will make threatening him with it much more effective.;P. J. O'Rourke;death
13513;Other states are trying to abolish the death penalty... mine's putting in an express lane.;Ron White;death
13514;The main facts in human life are five: birth, food, sleep, love and death.;E. M. Forster;death
13515;Death does not concern us, because as long as we exist, death is not here. And when it does come, we no longer exist.;Epicurus;death
13516;You must not fear death, my lads defy him, and you drive him into the enemy's ranks.;Napoleon Bonaparte;death
13517;It is the cause, not the death, that makes the martyr.;Napoleon Bonaparte;death
13518;I was not encouraged to follow the career of a writer because my parents thought that I was going to starve to death. They thought nobody can make a living from being a writer in Brazil. They were not wrong.;Paulo Coelho;death
13519;Marriage is the death of hope.;Woody Allen;death
13520;Humanity should question itself, once more, about the absurd and always unfair phenomenon of war, on whose stage of death and pain only remain standing the negotiating table that could and should have prevented it.;Pope John Paul II;death
13521;Our life dreams the Utopia. Our death achieves the Ideal.;Victor Hugo;death
13522;Live your life that the fear of death can never enter your heart.;Tecumseh;death
13523;The goal of all life is death.;Sigmund Freud;death
13524;I look forward to death with great anticipation, to meeting God face to face.;Billy Graham;death
13525;The tragedy of life is in what dies inside a man while he lives - the death of genuine feeling, the death of inspired response, the awareness that makes it possible to feel the pain or the glory of other men in yourself.;Norman Cousins;death
13526;Where is the politician who has not promised to fight to the death for lower taxes- and who has not proceeded to vote for the very spending projects that make tax cuts impossible?;Barry Goldwater;death
13527;Death is not the end. There remains the litigation over the estate.;Ambrose Bierce;death
13528;We are not victims of aging, sickness and death. These are part of scenery, not the seer, who is immune to any form of change. This seer is the spirit, the expression of eternal being.;Deepak Chopra;death
13529;Death is the wish of some, the relief of many, and the end of all.;Lucius Annaeus Seneca;death
13530;Belief is the death of intelligence.;Robert Anton Wilson;death
13531;A complainer is like a Death Eater because there's a suction of negative energy. You can catch a great attitude from great people.;Barbara Corcoran;death
13532;Grumbling is the death of love.;Marlene Dietrich;death
13533;Our life is made by the death of others.;Leonardo da Vinci;death
13534;Even in the valley of the shadow of death, two and two do not make six.;Leo Tolstoy;death
13535;The symbolic language of the crucifixion is the death of the old paradigm resurrection is a leap into a whole new way of thinking.;Deepak Chopra;death
13536;It is not death or pain that is to be dreaded, but the fear of pain or death.;Epictetus;death
13537;Art is the tree of life. Science is the tree of death.;William Blake;death
13538;As men are not able to fight against death, misery, ignorance, they have taken it into their heads, in order to be happy, not to think of them at all.;Blaise Pascal;death
13539;Nothing can happen more beautiful than death.;Walt Whitman;death
13540;The slave is doomed to worship time and fate and death, because they are greater than anything he finds in himself, and because all his thoughts are of things which they devour.;Bertrand Russell;death
13541;Because of its tremendous solemnity death is the light in which great passions, both good and bad, become transparent, no longer limited by outward appearences.;Soren Kierkegaard;death
13542;Death and love are the two wings that bear the good man to heaven.;Michelangelo;death
13543;And I will show that nothing can happen more beautiful than death.;Walt Whitman;death
13544;There are, as is known, insects that die in the moment of fertilization. So it is with all joy: life's highest, most splendid moment of enjoyment is accompanied by death.;Soren Kierkegaard;death
13545;Death, so called, is a thing which makes men weep, And yet a third of life is passed in sleep.;Lord Byron;death
13546;The death of one man is a tragedy. The death of millions is a statistic.;Joseph Stalin;death
13547;Our nature consists in motion complete rest is death.;Blaise Pascal;death
13548;Shrinking away from death is something unhealthy and abnormal which robs the second half of life of its purpose.;Carl Jung;death
13549;We need men with moral courage to speak and write their real thoughts, and to stand by their convictions, even to the very death.;Robert Green Ingersoll;death
13550;Since change is constant, you wonder if people crave death because it's the only way they can get anything really finished.;Chuck Palahniuk;death
13551;Every parting gives a foretaste of death, every reunion a hint of the resurrection.;Arthur Schopenhauer;death
13552;On neither the sun, nor death, can a man look fixedly.;Francois de La Rochefoucauld;death
13553;If I die prematurely I shall be saved from being bored to death at my own success.;Samuel Butler;death
13554;If we have been pleased with life, we should not be displeased with death, since it comes from the hand of the same master.;Michelangelo;death
13555;Sleep is the interest we have to pay on the capital which is called in at death and the higher the rate of interest and the more regularly it is paid, the further the date of redemption is postponed.;Arthur Schopenhauer;death
13556;Even though people may be well known, they hold in their hearts the emotions of a simple person for the moments that are the most important of those we know on earth: birth, marriage and death.;Jackie Kennedy;death
13557;In every parting there is an image of death.;George Eliot;death
13558;It is easy to go down into Hell night and day, the gates of dark Death stand wide but to climb back again, to retrace one's steps to the upper air - there's the rub, the task.;Virgil;death
13559;Death is the king of this world: 'Tis his park where he breeds life to feed him. Cries of pain are music for his banquet.;George Eliot;death
13560;When death comes it is never our tenderness that we repent from, but our severity.;George Eliot;death
13561;The charm of fame is so great that we like every object to which it is attached, even death.;Blaise Pascal;death
13562;On the plus side, death is one of the few things that can be done as easily lying down .;Woody Allen;death
13563;It is impossible to experience one's death objectively and still carry a tune.;Woody Allen;death
13564;When life is victorious, there is birth when it is thwarted, there is death. A warrior is always engaged in a life-and-death struggle for Peace.;Morihei Ueshiba;death
13565;Watching a peaceful death of a human being reminds us of a falling star one of a million lights in a vast sky that flares up for a brief moment only to disappear into the endless night forever.;Elisabeth Kubler-Ross;death
13566;To some extent I liken slavery to death.;Marcus Tullius Cicero;death
13567;Death is not natural for a state as it is for a human being, for whom death is not only necessary, but frequently even desirable.;Marcus Tullius Cicero;death
13568;It seems to me that if you or I must choose between two courses of thought or action, we should remember our dying and try so to live that our death brings no pleasure on the world.;John Steinbeck;death
13569;Old age is a tyrant, who forbids, under pain of death, the pleasures of youth.;Francois de La Rochefoucauld;death
13570;Neither the sun nor death can be looked at with a steady eye.;Francois de La Rochefoucauld;death
13571;I have two luxuries to brood over in my walks, your loveliness and the hour of my death. O that I could have possession of them both in the same minute.;John Keats;death
13572;Death is someone you see very clearly with eyes in the center of your heart: eyes that see not by reacting to light, but by reacting to a kind of a chill from within the marrow of your own life.;Thomas Merton;death
13573;Land and sea, weakness and decline are great separators, but death is the great divorcer for ever.;John Keats;death
13574;For a man who has done his natural duty, death is as natural as sleep.;George Santayana;death
13575;A revolution is a struggle to the death between the future and the past.;Fidel Castro;death
13576;Death may be the King of terrors... but Jesus is the King of kings!;Dwight L. Moody;death
13577;Death would not be called bad, O people, if one knew how to truly die.;Guru Nanak;death
13578;I don't fear death because I don't fear anything I don't understand. When I start to think about it, I order a massage and it goes away.;Hedy Lamarr;death
13579;When death, the great reconciler, has come, it is never our tenderness that we repent of, but our severity.;George Eliot;death
13580;But when I lose my temper, I find it difficult to forgive myself. I feel I've failed. I can be calm in a crisis, in the face of death or things that hurt badly. I don't get hysterical, which may be masochistic of me.;Emma Thompson;death
13581;Life is but a moment, death also is but another.;Robert H. Schuller;death
13582;Death unites as well as separates it silences all paltry feeling.;Honore de Balzac;death
13583;Death not merely ends life, it also bestows upon it a silent completeness, snatched from the hazardous flux to which all things human are subject.;Hannah Arendt;death
13584;A new idea is delicate. It can be killed by a sneer or a yawn it can be stabbed to death by a quip and worried to death by a frown on the right man's brow.;Ovid;death
13585;All violence consists in some people forcing others, under threat of suffering or death, to do what they do not want to do.;Leo Tolstoy;death
13586;I balanced all, brought all to mind, the years to come seemed waste of breath, a waste of breath the years behind, in balance with this life, this death.;William Butler Yeats;death
13587;Man is born in a day, and he dies in a day, and the thing is easily over but to have a sick heart for three-fourths of one's lifetime is simply to have death renewed every morning and life at that price is not worth living.;Gilbert Parker;death
13588;It is difficult to accept death in this society because it is unfamiliar. In spite of the fact that it happens all the time, we never see it.;Elisabeth Kubler-Ross;death
13589;Death is just life's next big adventure.;J. K. Rowling;death
13590;I would rather die a meaningful death than to live a meaningless life.;Corazon Aquino;death
13591;In the night of death, hope sees a star, and listening love can hear the rustle of a wing.;Robert Green Ingersoll;death
13592;Generally speaking, the Way of the warrior is resolute acceptance of death.;Miyamoto Musashi;death
13593;I like to behave in an extremely normal, wholesome manner for the most part in my daily life. Even if mentally I'm consumed with sick visions of violence, terror, sex and death.;Courtney Love;death
13594;Hearing nuns' confessions is like being stoned to death with popcorn.;Fulton J. Sheen;death
13595;Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death.;Rosalind Russell;death
13596;If any foreign minister begins to defend to the death a 'peace conference,' you can be sure his government has already placed its orders for new battleships and airplanes.;Joseph Stalin;death
13597;My father was a man of love. He always loved me to death. He worked hard in the fields, but my father never hit me. Never. I don't ever remember a really cross, unkind word from my father.;Johnny Cash;death
13598;I thank my God for graciously granting me the opportunity of learning that death is the key which unlocks the door to our true happiness.;Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart;death
13599;One is still what one is going to cease to be and already what one is going to become. One lives one's death, one dies one's life.;Jean-Paul Sartre;death
13600;If life must not be taken too seriously, then so neither must death.;Samuel Butler;death
13601;Whether for life or death, do your own work well.;John Ruskin;death
13602;My fear was not of death itself, but a death without meaning.;Huey Newton;death
13603;Wild animals never kill for sport. Man is the only one to whom the torture and death of his fellow creatures is amusing in itself.;James Anthony Froude;death
13604;The message that President Obama delivered in his speech at Notre Dame was: morality is immoral. Pro-life is the extremist position, not a moral position. Yet we should compromise and work to reduce abortions. Where's the compromise between life and death - and why work to reduce the number of them occurring if there's nothing wrong with them?;Rush Limbaugh;death
13605;True love makes the thought of death frequent, easy, without terrors it merely becomes the standard of comparison, the price one would pay for many things.;Stendhal;death
13606;There is nothing which at once affects a man so much and so little as his own death.;Samuel Butler;death
13607;A man must be willing to die for justice. Death is an inescapable reality and men die daily, but good deeds live forever.;Jesse Jackson;death
13608;I do not believe that any man fears to be dead, but only the stroke of death.;Francis Bacon;death
13609;Once you accept your own death, all of a sudden you're free to live. You no longer care about your reputation. You no longer care except so far as your life can be used tactically to promote a cause you believe in.;Saul Alinsky;death
13610;It is not death, it is dying that alarms me.;Michel de Montaigne;death
13611;Those who have never had a father can at any rate never know the sweets of losing one. To most men the death of his father is a new lease of life.;Samuel Butler;death
13612;Death is only a larger kind of going abroad.;Samuel Butler;death
13613;The history of the world is the record of the weakness, frailty and death of public opinion.;Samuel Butler;death
13614;Let us eat and drink neither forgetting death unduly nor remembering it. The Lord hath mercy on whom he will have mercy, etc., and the less we think about it the better.;Samuel Butler;death
13615;I am able to follow my own death step by step. Now I move softly towards the end.;Pope John XXIII;death
13616;If you live a life of make-believe, your life isn't worth anything until you do something that does challenge your reality. And to me, sailing the open ocean is a real challenge, because it's life or death.;Morgan Freeman;death
13617;Few cross the river of time and are able to reach non-being. Most of them run up and down only on this side of the river. But those who when they know the law follow the path of the law, they shall reach the other shore and go beyond the realm of death.;Horace;death
13618;If I die a violent death, as some fear and a few are plotting, I know that the violence will be in the thought and the action of the assassins, not in my dying.;Indira Gandhi;death
13619;Disease generally begins that equality which death completes.;Samuel Johnson;death
13620;Prepare for death, if here at night you roam, and sign your will before you sup from home.;Samuel Johnson;death
13621;If I take death into my life, acknowledge it, and face it squarely, I will free myself from the anxiety of death and the pettiness of life - and only then will I be free to become myself.;Martin Heidegger;death
13622;I would rather live and love where death is king than have eternal life where love is not.;Robert Green Ingersoll;death
13623;I'm one of the slowest drivers on the road. I mosey along. If you're doing anything too fast, including living life too fast, that creates sudden death. If I have to be somewhere on time, I make sure I leave early enough.;Anthony Hopkins;death
13624;Absence from whom we love is worse than death, and frustrates hope severer than despair.;William Cowper;death
13625;Creation destroys as it goes, throws down one tree for the rise of another. But ideal mankind would abolish death, multiply itself million upon million, rear up city upon city, save every parasite alive, until the accumulation of mere existence is swollen to a horror.;David Herbert Lawrence;death
13626;Love has no age, no limit and no death.;John Galsworthy;death
13627;Pale death, with impartial step, knocks at the hut of the poor and the towers of kings.;Horace;death
13628;He has not lived badly whose birth and death has been unnoticed by the world.;Horace;death
13629;Bravery is the capacity to perform properly even when scared half to death.;Omar N. Bradley;death
13630;For those who seek to understand it, death is a highly creative force. The highest spiritual values of life can originate from the thought and study of death.;Elisabeth Kubler-Ross;death
13631;Some of us can be examples about going ahead and growing, and some of us, unfortunately, don't make it there, and end up being examples because they had to die. I hit rock bottom, but thank God my bottom wasn't death.;Stevie Ray Vaughan;death
13632;What I look forward to is continued immaturity followed by death.;Dave Barry;death
13633;Death, they say, acquits us of all obligations.;Michel de Montaigne;death
13634;The ceaseless labour of your life is to build the house of death.;Michel de Montaigne;death
13635;That is the great mistake about the affections. It is not the rise and fall of empires, the birth and death of kings, or the marching of armies that move them most. When they answer from their depths, it is to the domestic joys and tragedies of life.;Amelia Barr;death
13636;Mendacity is a system that we live in. Liquor is one way out an death's the other.;Tennessee Williams;death
13637;We sometimes congratulate ourselves at the moment of waking from a troubled dream it may be so the moment after death.;Nathaniel Hawthorne;death
13638;Creativity is not merely the innocent spontaneity of our youth and childhood it must also be married to the passion of the adult human being, which is a passion to live beyond one's death.;Rollo May;death
13639;If you have only one passion in life - football - and you pursue it to the exclusion of everything else, it becomes very dangerous. When you stop doing this activity it is as though you are dying. The death of that activity is a death in itself.;Eric Cantona;death
13640;When the will defies fear, when duty throws the gauntlet down to fate, when honor scorns to compromise with death - that is heroism.;Robert Green Ingersoll;death
13641;Some people think football is a matter of life and death. I assure you, it's much more serious than that.;Bill Shankly;death
13642;In the attempt to defeat death man has been inevitably obliged to defeat life, for the two are inextricably related. Life moves on to death, and to deny one is to deny the other.;Henry Miller;death
13643;Death is delightful. Death is dawn, The waking from a weary night Of fevers unto truth and light.;James Russell Lowell;death
13644;I'm sick to death of people saying we've made 11 albums that sounds exactly the same, Infact, we've made 12 albums that sound exactly the same.;Angus Young;death
13645;Hunger, revenge, to sleep are petty foes, But only death the jealous eyes can close.;William Wycherley;death
13646;People have their own deaths as well as their own lives, and even if there is nothing beyond death, we shall differ in our nothingness.;E. M. Forster;death
13647;Death destroys a man, but the idea of death saves him.;E. M. Forster;death
13648;Men do not accept their prophets and slay them, but they love their martyrs and worship those whom they have tortured to death.;Fyodor Dostoevsky;death
13649;Don't be afraid to feel as angry or as loving as you can, because when you feel nothing, it's just death.;Lena Horne;death
13650;In order to go on living one must try to escape the death involved in perfectionism.;Hannah Arendt;death
13651;We do not celebrate the death of our enemies.;Yitzhak Rabin;death
13652;A country that relies on aid? Death is better than that. It stops you from achieving your potential, just as colonialism did.;Imran Khan;death
13653;Death be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so. For, those, whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow. Die not, poor death, nor yet canst thou kill me.;John Donne;death
13654;Kurt and I weren't the closest of friends, but I knew him well enough to be devastated by his death. For such a quiet person, he was so excited about having a child.;Layne Staley;death
13655;The Teutons have been singing the swan song ever since they entered the ranks of history. They have always confounded truth with death.;Henry Miller;death
13656;Divorce is probably as painful as death.;William Shatner;death
13657;Death has a tendency to encourage a depressing view of war.;Donald Rumsfeld;death
13658;I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.;Evelyn Beatrice Hall;death
13659;I'm Irish. I think about death all the time.;Jack Nicholson;death
13660;What you possess in the world will be found at the day of your death to belong to someone else. But what you are will be yours forever.;Henry Van Dyke;death
13661;The very essence of literature is the war between emotion and intellect, between life and death. When literature becomes too intellectual - when it begins to ignore the passions, the emotions - it becomes sterile, silly, and actually without substance.;Isaac Bashevis Singer;death
13662;Which death is preferably to every other? 'The unexpected'.;Julius Caesar;death
13663;I mean, whatever kills you kills you, and your death is authentic no matter how you die.;Jerry Garcia;death
13664;Not all moral issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia. There may be legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not... with regard to abortion and euthanasia.;Pope Benedict XVI;death
13665;The darkness of death is like the evening twilight it makes all objects appear more lovely to the dying.;Jean Paul;death
13666;I've looked that old scoundrel death in the eye many times but this time I think he has me on the ropes.;Douglas MacArthur;death
13667;Death is the only pure, beautiful conclusion of a great passion.;David Herbert Lawrence;death
13668;Death doesn't affect the living because it has not happened yet. Death doesn't concern the dead because they have ceased to exist.;W. Somerset Maugham;death
13669;A tragedy need not have blood and death it's enough that it all be filled with that majestic sadness that is the pleasure of tragedy.;Jean Racine;death
13670;There is no cure for birth and death save to enjoy the interval.;George Santayana;death
13671;The fear of death often proves mortal, and sets people on methods to save their Lives, which infallibly destroy them.;Joseph Addison;death
13672;There's nothing wrong in suffering, if you suffer for a purpose. Our revolution didn't abolish danger or death. It simply made danger and death worthwhile.;H. G. Wells;death
13673;As long as you have capital punishment there is no guarantee that innocent people won't be put to death.;Paul Simon;death
13674;In every death, a busy world comes to an end.;Mason Cooley;death
13675;Defoe says that there were a hundred thousand country fellows in his time ready to fight to the death against popery, without knowing whether popery was a man or a horse.;William Hazlitt;death
13676;It is old age, rather than death, that is to be contrasted with life. Old age is life's parody, whereas death transforms life into a destiny: in a way it preserves it by giving it the absolute dimension. Death does away with time.;Simone de Beauvoir;death
13677;Here I am trying to live, or rather, I am trying to teach the death within me how to live.;Jean Cocteau;death
13678;For death is not the worst, but when one wants to die and is not able even to have that.;Sophocles;death
13679;If forgers and malefactors are put to death by the secular power, there is much more reason for excommunicating and even putting to death one convicted of heresy.;Thomas Aquinas;death
13680;If what you do is being threatened as a profession, that could be scary. But that's the same reason why I walked out on stage many times after receiving death threats. I couldn't live without doing what I wanted to do. So at the same time I have to be willing to die for it.;Marilyn Manson;death
13681;And as long as you're subject to birth and death, you'll never attain enlightenment.;Bodhidharma;death
13682;Good music comes out of people playing together, knowing what they want to do and going for it. You have to sweat over it and bug it to death. You can't do it by pushing buttons and watching a TV screen.;Keith Richards;death
13683;A real hangover is nothing to try out family remedies on. The only cure for a real hangover is death.;Robert Benchley;death
13684;The human consciousness is really homogeneous. There is no complete forgetting, even in death.;David Herbert Lawrence;death
13685;Death never takes the wise man by surprise, he is always ready to go.;Jean de La Fontaine;death
13686;As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so life well used brings happy death.;Leonardo DaVinci;death
13687;Death is frightening, and so is Eternal Life.;Mason Cooley;death
13688;To have the truth in your possession you can be found guilty, sentenced to death.;Peter Tosh;death
13689;Communism is the death of the soul. It is the organization of total conformity - in short, of tyranny - and it is committed to making tyranny universal.;Adlai E. Stevenson;death
13690;For the wretched one night is like a thousand for someone faring well death is just one more night.;Sophocles;death
13691;Not even old age knows how to love death.;Sophocles;death
13692;I look at 'Death Proof' and realize I had too much time.;Quentin Tarantino;death
13693;Death comes at you no matter what you do in this life, and to equate drugs with death is a facile comparison.;Jerry Garcia;death
13694;A man who cannot be enticed by money or intimidated by the threat of jail or death has two of the strongest weapons that anyone has to offer.;Jesse Jackson;death
13695;The government is tottering. We must deal it the death blow an any cost. To delay action is the same as death.;Vladimir Lenin;death
13696;I was court-martialled in my absence, and sentenced to death in my absence, so I said they could shoot me in my absence.;Brendan Behan;death
13697;The leading cause of death among fashion models is falling through street grates.;Dave Barry;death
13698;The true face of smoking is disease, death and horror - not the glamour and sophistication the pushers in the tobacco industry try to portray.;David Byrne;death
13699;My father's death, my move, and my frightening and difficult delivery created a tremendous amount of stress, pain, and sadness for me. I was practically devastated beyond recovery.;Brooke Shields;death
13700;Death is really a great blessing for humanity, without it there could be no real progress. People who lived for ever would not only hamper and discourage the young, but they would themselves lack sufficient stimulus to be creative.;Alfred Adler;death
13701;To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.;J. K. Rowling;death
13702;Sleep is good, death is better but of course, the best thing would to have never been born at all.;Heinrich Heine;death
13703;All stories interest me, and some haunt me until I end up writing them. Certain themes keep coming up: justice, loyalty, violence, death, political and social issues, freedom.;Isabel Allende;death
13704;Well, to the people who pray for me to not only have an agonising death, but then be reborn to have an agonising and horrible eternal life of torture, I say, 'Well, good on you. See you there."
I have more than once in my time woken up feeling like death.
No true believer could be intolerant or a persecutor. If I were a magistrate and the law carried the death penalty against atheists, I would begin by sending to the stake whoever denounced another.
The fear of death comes from limited awareness.
I went to medical school because I wanted to ask the big questions. Do we have a soul? Does God exist? What happens after death?
Every spiritual tradition has this idea of death and resurrection. It's not unique to Christianity.
All I want is a gentleman. I'm sick to bloody death of bastards.
Crucial to understanding federalism in modern day America is the concept of mobility, or 'the ability to vote with your feet.' If you don't support the death penalty and citizens packing a pistol - don't come to Texas. If you don't like medicinal marijuana and gay marriage, don't move to California.
It is impossible that anything so natural, so necessary, and so universal as death, should ever have been designed by providence as an evil to mankind.
Communism possesses a language which every people can understand - its elements are hunger, envy, and death.
Death is the liberator of him whom freedom cannot release, the physician of him whom medicine cannot cure, and the comforter of him whom time cannot console.
Death is one moment, and life is so many of them.
A pun does not commonly justify a blow in return. But if a blow were given for such cause, and death ensued, the jury would be judges both of the facts and of the pun, and might, if the latter were of an aggravated character, return a verdict of justifiable homicide.
Man, as long as he lives, is immortal. One minute before his death he shall be immortal. But one minute later, God wins.
Death obsesses me, yes it does. I can't really understand why it doesn't obsess everyone - I think it does really, I'm just a little more out about it.
Prepare a noble death song for the day when you go over the great divide.
The nearer people approach old age the closer they return to a semblance of childhood, until the time comes for them to depart this life, again like children, neither tired of living nor aware of death.
Like all of us in this storm between birth and death, I can wreak no great changes on the world, only small changes for the better, I hope, in the lives of those I love.
It is a sign of creeping inner death when we can no longer praise the living.
Football (soccer) is a matter of life and death, except more important.
Death is not the biggest fear we have our biggest fear is taking the risk to be alive - the risk to be alive and express what we really are.
I never really got on that well with Yoko anyway. Strangely enough, I only started to get to know her after John's death.
The rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated.
Take care of your life and the Lord will take care of your death.
Those who welcome death have only tried it from the ears up.
I mean in the South African case, many of those who were part of death squads would have been respectable members of their white community, people who went to church on Sunday, every Sunday.
An evil life is a kind of death.
Death is less bitter punishment than death's delay.
My life comes down to three moments: the death of my father, meeting my husband, and the birth of my daughter. Everything I did previous to that just doesn't seem to add up to very much.
How strange this fear of death is! We are never frightened at a sunset.
I feel monotony and death to be almost the same.
Whether or not we believe in survival of consciousness after death, reincarnation, and karma, it has very serious implications for our behavior.
A man may devote himself to death and destruction to save a nation but no nation will devote itself to death and destruction to save mankind.
We want our idols to be dead because it makes death a much less scary place.
Not the torturer will scare me, nor the body's final fall, nor the barrels of death's rifles, nor the shadows on the wall, nor the night when to the ground the last dim star of pain, is hurled but the blind indifference of a merciless, unfeeling world.
Only a humanity to whom death has become as indifferent as its members, that has itself died, can inflict it administratively on innumerable people.
Normality is death.
Birth was the death of him.
Death is the sound of distant thunder at a picnic.
Death is easier than a wretched life and better never to have born than to live and fare badly.
When I came back to Dublin I was courtmartialed in my absence and sentenced to death in my absence, so I said they could shoot me in my absence.
Generosity during life is a very different thing from generosity in the hour of death one proceeds from genuine liberality and benevolence, the other from pride or fear.
An 'unemployed' existence is a worse negation of life than death itself.
Faithfulness to the past can be a kind of death above ground. Writing of the past is a resurrection the past then lives in your words and you are free.
As far as thinking about death and murder and various ways of killing people and how people die... I probably have the most twisted mind in Slayer.
It has ever been since time began, and ever will be, till time lose breath, that love is a mood - no more - to man, and love to a woman is life or death.
Poor Georgia O'Keeffe. Death didn't soften the opinions of the art world toward her paintings.
And yet, I suppose you mourn the loss or the death of what you thought your life was, even if you find your life is better after. You mourn the future that you thought you'd planned.
Death is the veil which those who live call life They sleep, and it is lifted.
Death is an absolute marvel.
We live in grief for having left the womb, for having left the teat, then school, then home. In my case, it was leaving marriages, and the death of my wife.
Madness need not be all breakdown. It may also be break-through. It is potential liberation and renewal as well as enslavement and existential death.
Success is like death. The more successful you become, the higher the houses in the hills get and the higer the fences get.
Once you start doing only what you've already proven you can do, you're on the road to death.
Death gives us sleep, eternal youth, and immortality.
All societies on the verge of death are masculine. A society can survive with only one man no society will survive a shortage of women.
Death is softer by far than tyranny.
For children preserve the fame of a man after his death.
Smiles, tears, of all my life! - and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death.
Being an old maid is like death by drowning, a really delightful sensation after you cease to struggle.
Pain and death are part of life. To reject them is to reject life itself.
McVeigh's lawyer got him the death penalty, which, quite frankly, I could have done.
I don't want to get into the 'who's a hostage-taker' discussion here, but what is the estate tax? It's a double tax on death. Economists will tell you that it's really not a tax that soaks the rich, but it's a tax on capital that deprives business investment and therefore job creation.
Do not seek death. Death will find you. But seek the road which makes death a fulfillment.
Life is a great sunrise. I do not see why death should not be an even greater one.
Every parting is a form of death, as every reunion is a type of heaven.
An important consequence of freeing oneself from the fear of death is a radical opening to spirituality of a universal and non-denominational type.
Man has but three events in his life: to be born, to live, and to die. He is not conscious of his birth, he suffers at his death and he forgets to live.
Rock and menopause do not mix. It is not good, it sucks and every day I fight it to the death, or, at the very least, not let it take me over.
In the first book of my Discworld series, published more than 26 years ago, I introduced Death as a character there was nothing particularly new about this - death has featured in art and literature since medieval times, and for centuries we have had a fascination with the Grim Reaper.
Death was like love, a romantic escape.
We have abolished the death penalty for humans, so why should it continue for animals?
I don't believe in life after death. But I do believe in some grinding destiny that watches over us on earth. If I didn't, the safety valve would give and the boiler would explode.
No society has been able to abolish human sadness, no political system can deliver us from the pain of living, from our fear of death, our thirst for the absolute. It is the human condition that directs the social condition, not vice versa.
A text of Tibetan Buddhism describes the time of death as a unique opportunity for spiritual liberation from the cycles of death and rebirth and a period that determines our next incarnation.
Life and death are important. Don't suffer them in vain.
The acceptance of death gives you more of a stake in life, in living life happily, as it should be lived. Living for the moment.
That which is so universal as death must be a benefit.
The call of death is a call of love. Death can be sweet if we answer it in the affirmative, if we accept it as one of the great eternal forms of life and transformation.
What is the value of sticking a microphone in a man's face right after he has learned of his wife's death?
I offer neither pay, nor quarters, nor food I offer only hunger, thirst, forced marches, battles and death. Let him who loves his country with his heart, and not merely with his lips, follow me.
I think about death a lot, like I think we all do. I don't think of suicide as an option, but as fun. It's an interesting idea that you can control how you go. It's this thing that's looming, and you can control it.
"Til the infallibility of human judgements shall have been proved to me, I shall demand the abolition of the penalty of death.;Marquis de Sade;death
13787;An insatiable appetite for glory leads to sacrifice and death, but innate instinct leads to self-preservation and life.;Jose Marti;death
13788;Nothing in life is promised except death.;Kanye West;death
13789;Salman Rushdie, indeed any writer who abuses the prophet or indeed any prophet under Islamic law, the sentence for that is actually death.;Cat Stevens;death
13790;Don't be afraid of death so much as an inadequate life.;Bertolt Brecht;death
13791;Of emotions, of love, of breakup, of love and hate and death and dying, mama, apple pie, and the whole thing. It covers a lot of territory, country music does.;Johnny Cash;death
13792;The ideal death, I think, is what was the ideal Victorian death, you know, with your grandchildren around you, a bit of sobbing. And you say goodbye to your loved ones, making certain that one of them has been left behind to look after the shop.;Terry Pratchett;death
13793;I'll keep peace at all cost, even if I choke to death on my tongue.;Paula Deen;death
13794;It is natural to indulge in the illusions of hope. We are apt to shut our eyes to that siren until she allures us to our death.;Gertrude Stein;death
13795;Just as I shall select my ship when I am about to go on a voyage, or my house when I propose to take a residence, so I shall choose my death when I am about to depart from life.;Seneca;death
13796;Days will prove that the assassination policy will not finish the Hamas. Hamas leaders wish to be martyrs and are not scared of death. Jihad will continue and the resistance will continue until we have victory, or we will be martyrs.;Ahmed Yassin;death
13797;Death is the great hope of all life the desire to expend itself to be used and consumed by its own longing for itself.;Bryant H. McGill;death
13798;Our criminal justice system is fallible. We know it, even though we don't like to admit it. It is fallible despite the best efforts of most within it to do justice. And this fallibility is, at the end of the day, the most compelling, persuasive, and winning argument against a death penalty.;Eliot Spitzer;death
13799;Death is the golden key that opens the palace of eternity.;John Milton;death
13800;Long hair is an unpardonable offense which should be punishable by death.;Steven Morrissey;death
13801;The kids out there want something they can relate to, something that's real most of that whiny stuff isn't real. The cheesy pop songs just bore me to death.;Jonathan Davis;death
13802;I was brought up by very witty people who were dealing with quite difficult things: disease and death... I was brought up by people who tended to giggle at funerals.;Emma Thompson;death
13803;Life without idealism is empty indeed. We just hope or starve to death.;Pearl S. Buck;death
13804;Everything tends to make us believe that there exists a certain point of the mind at which life and death, the real and the imagined, past and future, the communicable and the incommunicable, high and low, cease to be perceived as contradictions.;Andre Breton;death
13805;I have no fear of death. More important, I don't fear life.;Steven Seagal;death
13806;O Death, rock me asleep, bring me to quiet rest, let pass my weary guiltless ghost out of my careful breast.;Anne Boleyn;death
13807;Death comes in a flash, and that's the truth of it, the person's gone in less than 24 frames of film.;Martin Scorsese;death
13808;At the moment of death I hope to be surprised.;Ivan Illich;death
13809;I was court-martial in my absence, and sentenced to death in my absence, so I said they could shoot me in my absence.;Thomas Hardy;death
13810;Inactivity is death.;Benito Mussolini;death
13811;You've never seen death? Look in the mirror every day and you will see it like bees working in a glass hive.;Jean Cocteau;death
13812;After the writer's death, reading his journal is like receiving a long letter.;Jean Cocteau;death
13813;The day of my birth, my death began its walk. It is walking toward me, without hurrying.;Jean Cocteau;death
13814;Everybody is entertained to death.;Brian Eno;death
13815;Talk to people in their own language. If you do it well, they'll say, 'God, he said exactly what I was thinking.' And when they begin to respect you, they'll follow you to the death.;Lee Iacocca;death
13816;I was very sad to hear of the death of Ronnie Barker, who was such a warm, friendly and encouraging presence to have when I started in television. He was also a great comic actor to learn from.;John Cleese;death
13817;The world is put back by the death of every one who has to sacrifice the development of his or her peculiar gifts to conventionality.;Florence Nightingale;death
13818;I am not the born how can there be either birth or death for me?;Guru Nanak;death
13819;The desire to die was my one and only concern to it I have sacrificed everything, even death.;Emile M. Cioran;death
13820;Life inspires more dread than death - it is life which is the great unknown.;Emile M. Cioran;death
13821;Buddhas move freely through birth and death, appearing and disappearing at will.;Bodhidharma;death
13822;We were aware of the fact that death walks hand in hand with struggle.;Stokely Carmichael;death
13823;It is not tolerable, it is not possible, that from so much death, so much sacrifice and ruin, so much heroism, a greater and better humanity shall not emerge.;Charles de Gaulle;death
13824;If your best friend has stolen your girlfriend, it does become life and death.;Ben Kingsley;death
13825;I'm possibly a very morbid person but I think about death a lot.;Daniel Radcliffe;death
13826;Quarreling over food and drink, having neither scruples nor shame, not knowing right from wrong, not trying to avoid death or injury, not fearful of greater strength or of greater numbers, greedily aware only of food and drink - such is the bravery of the dog and boar.;Xun Zi;death
13827;I grew up in the suburbs and basically associate the suburbs with cultural death.;Billy Corgan;death
13828;You know Americans are obsessed with life and death and rebirth, that's the American Cycle. You know, awakening, tragic, horrible death and then Phoenix rising from the ashes. That's the American story, again and again.;Billy Corgan;death
13829;I was fantasising about my own death, I started thinking what my funeral would be like and what music would be played, I was at that level of insanity.;Billy Corgan;death
13830;Andrew Wood's death changed things for a few weeks. I probably got even heavier into drugs after that.;Layne Staley;death
13831;Only in death will I relinquish my belts.;Manny Pacquiao;death
13832;Benjamin Franklin said there were only two things certain in life: death and taxes. But I'd like to add a third certainty: trash. And while some in this room might want to discuss reducing taxes, I want to talk about reducing trash.;Ruth Ann Minner;death
13833;When you break up, your whole identity is shattered. It's like death.;Dennis Quaid;death
13834;Deep down, no one really believes they have a right to live. But this death sentence generally stays tucked away, hidden beneath the difficulty of living. If that difficulty is removed from time to time, death is suddenly there, unintelligibly.;Jean Baudrillard;death
13835;Nothing endears so much a friend as sorrow for his death. The pleasure of his company has not so powerful an influence.;David Hume;death
13836;I saw also that there was an ocean of darkness and death, but an infinite ocean of light and love, which flowed over the ocean of darkness.;George Fox;death
13837;There is something about poverty that smells like death.;Zora Neale Hurston;death
13838;As long as you don't make waves, ripples, life seems easy. But that's condemning yourself to impotence and death before you are dead.;Jeanne Moreau;death
13839;If Shaw and Einstein couldn't beat death, what chance have I got? Practically none.;Mel Brooks;death
13840;If some persons died, and others did not die, death would be a terrible affliction.;Jean de la Bruyere;death
13841;The passion of hatred is so long lived and so obstinate a malady that the surest sign of death in a sick person is their desire for reconciliation.;Jean de la Bruyere;death
13842;There are only three events in a man's life birth, life, and death he is not conscious of being born, he dies in pain, and he forgets to live.;Jean de la Bruyere;death
13843;Old age, calm, expanded, broad with the haughty breadth of the universe, old age flowing free with the delicious near-by freedom of death.;Edith Wharton;death
13844;Everything one does in life, even love, occurs in an express train racing toward death. To smoke opium is to get out of the train while it is still moving. It is to concern oneself with something other than life or death.;Jean Cocteau;death
13845;People praise virtue, but they hate it, they run away from it. It freezes you to death, and in this world you've got to keep your feet warm.;Denis Diderot;death
13846;Families survive, one way or another. You have a tie, a connection that exists long after death, through many lifetimes.;Jessica Lange;death
13847;See, I have set before you this day life and good, death and evil... I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse therefore choose life.;Moses;death
13848;Death in itself is nothing but we fear to be we know not what, we know not where.;John Dryden;death
13849;For those who live neither with religious consolations about death nor with a sense of death (or of anything else) as natural, death is the obscene mystery, the ultimate affront, the thing that cannot be controlled. It can only be denied.;Susan Sontag;death
13850;Death is with you all the time you get deeper in it as you move towards it, but it's not unfamiliar to you. It's always been there, so what becomes unfamiliar to you when you pass away from the moment is really life.;Bell Hooks;death
13851;People think celebrities don't have to worry about human things like sickness and death and rent. It's like you've traveled to this Land of Celebrity, this other country. They want you to tell about what you saw.;David Duchovny;death
13852;The essence of the Hebrew Bible, transmitted by Christianity, is separation: between life and death, nature and God, good and evil, man and woman, and the holy and the profane.;Dennis Prager;death
13853;When I listen to music, I don't want to hear about flowers. I like death and destruction.;Jonathan Davis;death
13854;In the last analysis, it is our conception of death which decides our answers to all the questions that life puts to us.;Dag Hammarskjold;death
13855;The compact which exists between the North and the South is a covenant with death and an agreement with hell.;William Lloyd Garrison;death
13856;His death was the first time that Ed Wynn ever made anyone sad.;Red Skelton;death
13857;But I was very, very lucky, and it was a wake up call as far as motorbikes are concerned. I never flirted with death on the bike, but now I'm totally convinced they're death machines.;Liam Neeson;death
13858;To be honest, I'm scared to death of rollercoaster rides.;Liam Neeson;death
13859;There is no fundamental difference between the preparation for death and the practice of dying, and spiritual practice leading to enlightenment.;Stanislav Grof;death
13860;I was blessed with a birth and a death, and I guess I just want some say in between.;Ani DiFranco;death
13861;All those vitamins aren't to keep death at bay, they're to keep deterioration at bay.;Jeanne Moreau;death
13862;No one else can take risks for us, or face our losses on our behalf, or give us self-esteem. No one can spare us from life's slings and arrows, and when death comes, we meet it alone.;Martha Beck;death
13863;My mortal foe can no ways wish me a greater harm than England's hate neither should death be less welcome unto me than such a mishap betide me.;Elizabeth I;death
13864;The meaning of life is not to be discovered only after death in some hidden, mysterious realm on the contrary, it can be found by eating the succulent fruit of the Tree of Life and by living in the here and now as fully and creatively as we can.;Paul Kurtz;death
13865;Death is not more certainly a separation of our souls from our bodies than the Christian life is a separation of our souls from worldly tempers, vain indulgences, and unnecessary cares.;William Law;death
13866;I don't think kids have a problem with death. It's us older ones who are nearer to it, that start being frightened.;Helena Bonham Carter;death
13867;The great fear that hung over the business community in the 1970s was death by regulation, and the great goal of the conservative movement, as it rose to triumph in the 1980s, was to remove that threat - to keep OSHA, the EPA, and the FTC from choking off entrepreneurship with their infernal meddling in the marketplace.;Thomas Frank;death
13868;Life is doubt, and faith without doubt is nothing but death.;Miguel de Unamuno;death
13869;The death of Pope John Paul II led many of different faiths and of no faith to acknowledge their debt to the Roman Catholic Church for holding on to absolutes that the rest of us can measure ourselves against.;Suzanne Fields;death
13870;You don't have people chanting 'Death to America' in Israel.;Benjamin Netanyahu;death
13871;The earth is rocky and full of roots it's clay, and it seems doomed and polluted, but you dig little holes for the ugly shriveled bulbs, throw in a handful of poppy seeds, and cover it all over, and you know you'll never see it again - it's death and clay and shrivel, and your hands are nicked from the rocks, your nails black with soil.;Anne Lamott;death
13872;The death of any man aged 56 is very sad for his widow and family. And no one would deny that Steve Jobs was a brilliant and highly innovative technician, with great business flair and marketing ability.;A. N. Wilson;death
13873;I'm scared to death of being poor. It's like a fat girl who loses 500 pounds but is always fat inside. I grew up poor and will always feel poor inside. It's my pet paranoia.;Cher;death
13874;Your body must become familiar with its death - in all its possible forms and degrees - as a self-evident, imminent, and emotionally neutral step on the way towards the goal you have found worthy of your life.;Dag Hammarskjold;death
13875;Death is a billion-dollar business. They can't even pass a law where it takes seven days to get a gun. Why don't you have to go through the same kind of screening you do to get a driver's license? It's totally insane.;John Cusack;death
13876;As a kid, all I thought about was death. But you can't tell your parents that.;Maurice Sendak;death
13877;The death penalty is becoming a way of life in this country.;Dennis Miller;death
13878;I mean, I'm 48 years old and I've been through a lot in my life - you know, loss, whether it be death, illness, separation. I mean, the failed expectations... We all have dreams.;Annie Lennox;death
13879;Death comes not to the living soul, nor age to the loving heart.;Phoebe Cary;death
13880;I'm working myself to death.;Alan Ladd;death
13881;At the New York Athletic Club they serve amazing food. People go there, get healthy, and then eat themselves to death - which is, I suppose, the right way to do it.;Oliver Reed;death
13882;Property is unstable, and youth perishes in a moment. Life itself is held in the grinning fangs of Death, Yet men delay to obtain release from the world. Alas, the conduct of mankind is surprising.;Plautus;death
13883;Well, there's a remedy for all things but death, which will be sure to lay us flat one time or other.;Miguel de Cervantes;death
13884;Old age is always wakeful as if, the longer linked with life, the less man has to do with aught that looks like death.;Herman Melville;death
13885;Life and death. They are somehow sweetly and beautifully mixed, but I don't know how.;Gloria Swanson;death
13886;Doing linear scans over an associative array is like trying to club someone to death with a loaded Uzi.;Larry Wall;death
13887;I'm sick to death of famous people standing up and using their celebrity to promote a cause. If I see a particular need, I do try to help. But there's a lot that can be achieved by putting a check in the right place and shutting up about it.;Russell Crowe;death
13888;Life is a predicament which precedes death.;Henry James;death
13889;Death is the easiest of all things after it, and the hardest of all things before it.;Abu Bakr;death
13890;Death is inevitable, but Life - that's the tricky bit where things happen.;Simon Travaglia;death
13891;She looks like a warrior. I mean, Bellatrix does mean warrior. And she's also a bit of a fatale. She's the right hand of Voldemort, and the only woman death eater.;Helena Bonham Carter;death
13892;People think celebrities don't have to worry about human things like sickness and death and rent. It's like you've traveled to this Land of Celebrity, this other country.;David Duchovny;death
13893;For the sake of goodness and love, man shall let death have no sovereignty over his thoughts.;Thomas Mann;death
13894;I can't turn on the television without seeing me, or open the newspaper without seeing me and, honestly, I'm sick to death of me.;Elizabeth Edwards;death
13895;He who does not fear death cares naught for threats.;Pierre Corneille;death
13896;To die for one's country is such a worthy fate that all compete for so beautiful a death.;Pierre Corneille;death
13897;Each instant of life is a step toward death.;Pierre Corneille;death
13898;You always think that 70 is the end of the road: 'Somebody died when they were 73 good life'. You're closer to death, and you better make sure you don't waste too much of your time doing things you don't want to do. No point in saying things you don't believe in.;Ian Mckellen;death
13899;When I'm lying in my bed I think about life and I think about death and neither one particularly appeals to me.;Steven Morrissey;death
13900;Science without conscience is the death of the soul.;Francois Rabelais;death
13901;Had it not been for slavery, the death penalty would have likely been abolished in America. Slavery became a haven for the death penalty.;Angela Davis;death
13902;So much of motion, is so much of life, and so much of joy, and to stand still, or get on but slowly, is death and the devil.;Laurence Sterne;death
13903;Death is the mother of Beauty hence from her, alone, shall come fulfillment to our dreams and our desires.;Wallace Stevens;death
13904;In Sleep we lie all naked and alone, in Sleep we are united at the heart of night and darkness, and we are strange and beautiful asleep for we are dying the darkness and we know no death.;Thomas Wolfe;death
13905;If efforts to do social work are couched in selfish motives, then they will die a premature death. Why would my efforts get politicised? I have values I inherited from my father. He helped many. Anyone, even a postman knocking on our door would get a glass of water and some sweets.;Sachin Tendulkar;death
13906;But I have been in some very beautiful churches, then I've looked outside and seen people starving to death.;Don Van Vliet;death
13907;For tis not in mere death that men die most.;Elizabeth Barrett Browning;death
13908;The Greeks said grandly in their tragic phrase, 'Let no one be called happy till his death' to which I would add, 'Let no one, till his death, be called unhappy."
The wages of sin are death, but by the time taxes are taken out, it's just sort of a tired feeling.
Not ignorance, but ignorance of ignorance, is the death of knowledge.
I believe that his death and resurrection transformed humanity's relationship with God.
Islam is a religion of success. Unlike Christianity, which has as its main image, in the west at least, a man dying in a devastating, disgraceful, helpless death.
Become an internationalist and learn to respect all life. Make war on machines. And in particular the sterile machines of corporate death and the robots that guard them.
Does not the very word 'creative' mean to build, to initiate, to give out, to act - rather than to be acted upon, to be subjective? Living photography is positive in its approach, it sings a song of life - not death.
Death is an absolute mystery. We are all vulnerable to it, it's what makes life interesting and suspenseful.
It's just as idiotic to say there is no life after death as it is to say there is one.
Knowing how to die is knowing how to live. What is death anyway? It's the outcome of life.
When I did 'Bumble-ardy,' I was so intensely aware of death. Eugene, my friend and partner, was dying here in the house when I did 'Bumble-ardy'. I did 'Bumble-ardy' to save myself. I did not want to die with him. I wanted to live, as any human being does.
I'm not afraid of death.
The distinctions of fine art bore me to death.
As a kid, all I thought about was death.
When theater becomes a soothing middle-class thing, when it's packaged as the Night Out, then that's the death of it.
Living is a sickness to which sleep provides relief every sixteen hours. It's a palliative. The remedy is death.
Monarchs ought to put to death the authors and instigators of war, as their sworn enemies and as dangers to their states.
Death is a delightful hiding place for weary men.
The enemy fought with savage fury, and met death with all its horrors, without shrinking or complaining: not one asked to be spared, but fought as long as they could stand or sit.
I know I'm drinking myself to a slow death, but then I'm in no hurry.
For days after death hair and fingernails continue to grow, but phone calls taper off.
It is a horrible fact that we can read in the daily paper, without interrupting our breakfast, numerical reckonings of death and destruction that ought to break our hearts or scare us out of our wits.
I've always been scared to death of pain - afraid, even, to think of it.
Policemen so cherish their status as keepers of the peace and protectors of the public that they have occasionally been known to beat to death those citizens or groups who question that status.
At a certain age, death becomes familiar to you-or a loss becomes familiar-the tragedies that are more commonplace in life.
Loved. You can't use it in the past tense. Death does not stop that love at all.
Have an earnestness for death and you will have life.
There is no harm in patience, and no profit in lamentation. Death is easier to bear (than) that which precedes it, and more severe than that which comes after it. Remember the death of the Apostle of God, and your sorrow will be lessened.
You can cry about death and very properly so, your own as well as anybody else's. But it's inevitable, so you'd better grapple with it and cope and be aware that not only is it inevitable, but it has always been inevitable, if you see what I mean.
Sinful and forbidden pleasures are like poisoned bread they may satisfy appetite for the moment, but there is death in them at the end.
I'm very comfortable with the nature of life and death, and that we come to an end. What's most difficult to imagine is that those dreams and early yearnings and desires of childhood and adolescence will also disappear. But who knows? Maybe you become part of the eternal whatever.
If you make every game a life and death proposition, you're going to have problems. For one thing, you'll be dead a lot.
It's an incredible con job when you think about it, to believe something now in exchange for something after death. Even corporations with their reward systems don't try to make it posthumous.
Yes, people pull the trigger - but guns are the instrument of death. Gun control is necessary, and delay means more death and horror.
Disease, insanity, and death were the angels that attended my cradle, and since then have followed me throughout my life.
People always say that pregnant women have a glow. And I say it's because you're sweating to death.
The end of the animal trade would leave more time to trap or beat to death pop star wannabes.
We are weak, writing is difficult, but for my own sake I do not regret this journey, which has shown that Englishmen can endure hardships, help one another, and meet death with as great a fortitude as ever in the past.
The sole equality on earth is death.
I put for the general inclination of all mankind, a perpetual and restless desire of power after power, that ceaseth only in death.
Without fullness of experience, length of days is nothing. When fullness of life has been achieved, shortness of days is nothing. That is perhaps why the young have usually so little fear of death they live by intensities that the elderly have forgotten.
I intend to leave after my death a large fund for the promotion of the peace idea, but I am skeptical as to its results.
Sleep is lovely, death is better still, not to have been born is of course the miracle.
Life isn't fair. It's just fairer than death, that's all.
I feel like I don't watch that many shows with death.
Consciousness after death demonstrates the possibility of consciousness operating independently of the body.
Whenever I watch TV and see those poor starving kids all over the world, I can't help but cry. I mean I'd love to be skinny like that, but not with all those flies and death and stuff.
When applied to politics and taken to its extreme, kitsch is the mask of death. Fascism was all aesthetics. There was no core principle to it. There was no truth to it.
All interest in disease and death is only another expression of interest in life.
I love this pedal to death. The only way you could keep me from playing one is by chopping off my legs!
Even when you're making a movie about life, death is a presence, and I guess it's part of my dramatic viewpoint. I'm not sure why exactly. Maybe I'm drawn to it as a story element.
Once a disease has entered the body, all parts which are healthy must fight it: not one alone, but all. Because a disease might mean their common death. Nature knows this and Nature attacks the disease with whatever help she can muster.
People can undergo a sudden change of thinking and loyalties under threat of death or intense social pressure and isolation from friends and family.
It's not the normal way to look at things but I experienced death at a really young age and because of that it's been part of my mental landscape that death is really very possible.
I made a supreme effort not to do that thing that parents do, which is to bore people without children to death by going on and on about how funny their children are, so there's none of that hopefully.
Courage is the art of being the only one who knows you're scared to death.
Death, the final, triumphant lover.
I believe that people would be alive today if there were a death penalty.
For three days after death, hair and fingernails continue to grow but phone calls taper off.
My brother was a great favorite with everybody, and his death cast a gloom upon the whole neighborhood.
So for twelve miles I rode with Sherman, and we became fast friends. He asked me all manner of questions on the way, and I found that he knew my father well, and remembered his tragic death in Salt Creek Valley.
Tears are sometimes an inappropriate response to death. When a life has been lived completely honestly, completely successfully, or just completely, the correct response to death's perfect punctuation mark is a smile.
Life can't defeat a writer who is in love with writing, for life itself is a writer's lover until death.
When sudden death takes a president, opportunities for new beginnings flourish among the ambitious and the tensions among such people can be dramatic, as they were when President Kennedy was killed.
Death is the final wake-up call.
As the fly bangs against the window attempting freedom while the door stands open, so we bang against death ignoring heaven.
I am bound to add that the excess in too little has ever proved in me more dangerous than the excess in too much the last may cause indigestion, but the first causes death.
To appear on the stage drunk, to have them leave there and remember me making drunken mistakes, that was death.
We have a limit, a very discouraging, humiliating limit: death.
A face to lose youth for, to occupy age With the dream of, meet death with.
I think the amazing thing about gospel music is that not only does it lift up the death and resurrection of our Lord, which is consistent with the Gospel, but it is uniquely communicated depending upon the generation.
There are certain people that are marked for death. I have my little list of those that treated me unfairly.
Judged by the law of England, I know this crime entails upon me the penalty of death but the history of Ireland explains that crime and justifies it.
We do not choose the day of our birth nor may we choose the day of our death, yet choice is the sovereign faculty of the mind.
But there is a difference here: When Jewish children are murdered, Arabs celebrate the deed. The death of an Arab child is no cause for celebration in Israel.
I'm in awe of people out there who deal with Alzheimer's, because they have to deal with death 10 times over, year after year.
Failure too is a form of death.
We know the road to freedom has always been stalked by death.
The thing about death is that it's honest.
I think the way we talk about cancer has really evolved. I remember the way my grandmother used to talk about it, like a death sentence, no-one would even mention the word.
I really enjoy theater. I just went to see 'Death of a Salesman,' and it knocked me on my ass.
I was extended secret service protection during my presidential run in 1984, when I received the most death threats ever made toward a candidate.
My mother was the sweetest lady who ever lived on this planet, but if you tried to tell her that Jesus wasn't a Christian, she would stomp you to death.
The disembodied spirit is immortal there is nothing of it that can grow old or die. But the embodied spirit sees death on the horizon as soon as its day dawns.
Constantly risking absurdity and death whenever he performs above the heads of his audience, the poet, like an acrobat, climbs on rhyme to a high wire of his own making.
I'm more afraid of marriage than death.
Pay mind to your own life, your own health, and wholeness. A bleeding heart is of no help to anyone if it bleeds to death.
I get scared to death when I see people who say they've found Jesus Christ, and they're out there, and I wonder, who's teaching them? Who's mentoring them?
To say yes, you have to sweat and roll up your sleeves and plunge both hands into life up to the elbows. It is easy to say no, even if saying no means death.
Giving is good, but taking is bad and brings death.
Death is the sanction of everything the story-teller can tell. He has borrowed his authority from death.
I'm not afraid of death. It's the stake one puts up in order to play the game of life.
To eat bread without hope is still slowly to starve to death.
Art has two constant, two unending concerns: It always meditates on death and thus always creates life. All great, genuine art resembles and continues the Revelation of St John.
I mean, death is a serious thing, certainly not to be sneezed at.
Long hair is an unpardonable offence which should be punishable by death.
Men should be bewailed at their birth, and not at their death.
We are now operating a school system in America that's more segregated than at any time since the death of Martin Luther King.
In my solitude I have pondered much on the incomprehensible subjects of space, eternity, life and death.
It is love, not reason, that is stronger than death.
The only religious way to think of death is as part and parcel of life.
Death Valley is really wide-open - it's bigger than Rhode Island - and it's less a part of California than an ungoverned territory, so there's lots of weird cops-and-robbers stuff going on.
Even when you're making a movie about life, death is a presence, and I guess it's part of my dramatic viewpoint. I'm not sure why exactly.
Lidia Bastianich, sorry, but kind of boring. I mean, I love Lidia, but you can fall asleep watching her. And Mario Batali? I love Mario to death... but he's not romantic or sensual. Those are the things I bring to the table.
To a billion people around the world surviving on just a dollar a day, the question of what to eat tonight is more about life and death than about recipes. The struggle of poor people around the globe weighs heavily on me, especially now that I am a mother, which is why I work with Oxfam.
I just finished my homework fast, I was bored to death. There wasn't 500 channels so there was a thing for a librarian to teach a kid like me about reading. I started reading early and I read all the time, because I love it.
I think Prince should open up a little more to other artists. Just because we love Prince. Especially the old stuff - we love him to death. But if he opened up he would be something to deal with. Imagine Kanye West producing a Prince track? It would be banoodles!
Death ends a life, not a relationship.
We march and fight, to death or on to victory. Our might is right, no traitors shall prevail. Our hearts are steeled against the fiery gates of hell. No shot or shell, can still our mighty song.
Fear was absolutely necessary. Without it, I would have been scared to death.
Everybody thinks I'm at death's door, but I'm not. There's nothing seriously wrong with me, and my heart is in 100 percent working order. Anything else you may hear is a damn lie!
Death is an endless night so awful to contemplate that it can make us love life and value it with such passion that it may be the ultimate cause of all joy and all art.
I mean, Sting is one of my great buddies and I love him to death.
But the issue is not only life and death but our existence before God and our being judged by him. All of us were sinners before him and worthy of condemnation.
There's really no such thing as the agony of dying. I'm quite sure that pain is shut off at the moment of death. You see, something happens when the body knows it's about to go. Peptide hormones are released by cells in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. Endorphins. They attach themselves to the cells responsible for feeling pain.
A lot of people fear death because they think that so overwhelming an experience has to be painful, but I've seen quite a few deaths, and, with one exception, I've never known anyone to undergo anything like agony. That's amazing when you think about it. I mean, how complicated the mechanism is that's being taken apart.
So we mustn't lower our guard in any sense because of what has happened in terms of the death of Osama Bin Laden and we are certainly not doing that. The terror threat level here in the U.K. remains at severe and we're very conscious of the need to continue that.
Death gives meaning to our lives. It gives importance and value to time. Time would become meaningless if there were too much of it.
If we can't face death, we'll never overcome it. You have to look it straight in the eye. Then you can turn around and walk back out into the light.
Marriage can be viewed as the waiting room for death.
I can choose to accelerate my disease to an alcoholic death or incurable insanity, or I can choose to live within my thoroughly human condition.
I've always had bronchitis. I've been administered the Sacrament of Death three times for it.
It is education that will arm us with the tools that will enable us to succeed and put a stop to the rising rates of preventable death.
Most of us harbour a significant amount of subconscious fear about death, and act out of this fear in our daily lives.
War is not the only arena where peace is done to death.
I am against the death penalty.
My father was against the death penalty, and that was hard in the Son of Sam summer when fear was driving the desire for the death penalty.
The need to understand prescription information can literally be a matter of life and death.
Movies like that aren't about the visual effects and explosions. They're human stories about family, about life, about death.
To awake from death is to die in peace.
Death is feared as birth is forgotten.
When death has you by the throat, you don't mince words.
Should I perchance still feel after my death, I would no longer have any doubt, but I would most certainly give the lie to anyone asserting before me that I was dead.
If death is in the room, it's pretty interesting. But I would also say that I'm interested in getting myself to believe that it's going to happen to me. I'm interested in it, because if you're not, you're nuts. It's really de facto what we're here to find out about.
A man whose life has been dishonourable is not entitled to escape disgrace in death.
My father I liked, but it was only after his death that I got to know him by writing the play.
Before I pitch any game, from spring training to Game 7 of the World Series, I'm scared to death.
In Seattle, I soon found that my radical ideas and aesthetic explorations - ideas and explorations that in Richmond, Virginia, might have gotten me stoned to death with hush puppies - were not only accepted but occasionally applauded.
Coming to terms with the fear of death is conducive to healing, positive personality transformation, and consciousness evolution.
Liberty for wolves is death to the lambs.
I think one thing that kids who grow up on farms really have going for them is they have exposure to death and birth in a totally different way. I think it takes away a little bit of the mystery and a little bit of the fear, and I do wish I had that. And I wish I was able to grow my own food.
I now bid farewell to the country of my birth - of my passions - of my death a country whose misfortunes have invoked my sympathies - whose factions I sought to quell - whose intelligence I prompted to a lofty aim - whose freedom has been my fatal dream.
The death of anti-gay hate speech is no doubt being hastened by the head-spinning speed with which gays as a group - to say nothing of gay marriage - are becoming an unremarkable and even quite traditional parts of American life.
Our birth is nothing but our death begun, As tapers waste the moment they take fire.
Virtue alone has majesty in death.
Less base the fear of death than fear of life.
Life is the desert, life the solitude, death joins us to the great majority.
I am one who believes that one of the greatest dangers of advertising is not that of misleading people, but that of boring them to death.
People are scared to death of dying. I am the opposite.
People on death row, the treatment of animals, women's right to choose. So much in America is based on religious fundamentalist Christianity. Grow up! This is the modern world!
It is long since I could have adventured on eternity, through God's mercy and Christ's merits but death remained somewhat terrible, and that now is taken away and now death is no more to me, but to cast myself into my husband's arms, and to lie down with Him.
Fear not and the God of mercies grant a full gale and a fair entry into His kingdom, which may carry sweetly and swiftly over the bar, that you find not the rub of death.
I wish to be a martyr, and I don't fear death.
Death has always had a prominent place in my mind. There are times when I think somebody might kill me.
I looked Death right in the face.
We are all of us resigned to death: it's life we aren't resigned to.
The approach of death certainly concentrates the mind.
Fear of death has never played a large part in my consciousness - perhaps unimaginative of me.
I might be deceiving myself but I do not think that I do have an inordinate fear of death.
We see death constantly on film.
For a culture that has such a problem with death, we seem to deal with it in a quite bizarre way. We see people shot, killed and blown up, and we find it funny and sexy and all those things. But, the reality of it is that every day people die, and people are really sad and they grieve and they go through a really difficult process with it.
"Hamlet' is one of the most dangerous things ever set down on paper. All the big, unknowable questions like what it is to be a human being the difference between sanity and insanity the meaning of life and death what's real and not real. All these subjects can literally drive you mad.;Michael Sheen;death
14070;If we openly declare what is wrong with us, what is our deepest need, then perhaps the death and despair will by degrees disappear.;J. B. Priestley;death
14071;The most dire disaster in love is the death of imagination.;George Meredith;death
14072;To be immortal is commonplace except for man, all creatures are immortal, for they are ignorant of death what is divine, terrible, incomprehensible, is to know that one is immortal.;Jorge Luis Borges;death
14073;Life and death have been lacking in my life.;Jorge Luis Borges;death
14074;Ultimately life is disease, death and oblivion. It's still better than high school.;Dan Savage;death
14075;My children are magical creatures and I love them to death.;Jack Black;death
14076;But then I'm one of those guys that is still a bit afraid of the telephone, its implications for conversation. I still wonder if the jukebox might be the death of live music.;Tom Waits;death
14077;Perhaps we don't need these religious concoctions to pillow the fear of death. Just the fact that there is an unknown, and something greater, can bring a feeling of peace. That's enough for me.;Brad Pitt;death
14078;If a lot of people gripped a knife and fork the way they do a golf club, they'd starve to death.;Sam Snead;death
14079;In almost every interview someone asks what does HIM stand for. I can't even remember our latest lie about that. When Hanson was hot, we said it means Hanson Is Murder. The name doesn't have a particular history. His Infernal Majesty was a totally different band. I think HIM derives from some death metal joke.;Ville Valo;death
14080;Early this morning, I signed my death warrant.;Michael Collins;death
14081;I don't think I would want the responsibility for enforcing the death penalties. There's always the inevitable question of whether someone you gave the order to execute might truly have been innocent.;Jesse Ventura;death
14082;I hit rock bottom, but thank God my bottom wasn't death.;Stevie Ray Vaughan;death
14083;In an artwork you're always looking for artistic decisions, so an ashtray is perfect. An ashtray has got life and death.;Damien Hirst;death
14084;Since I was a child, death is definitely something that I think about every day. But I think that everybody does. You try and avoid it, but it's such a big thing that you can't.;Damien Hirst;death
14085;The difference between art about death and actual death is that one's a celebration and the other's a dull fact.;Damien Hirst;death
14086;I was taught to confront things you can't avoid. Death is one of those things. To live in a society where you're trying not to look at it is stupid because looking at death throws us back into life with more vigour and energy. The fact that flowers don't last for ever makes them beautiful.;Damien Hirst;death
14087;I wouldn't feel satisfied being on set every day doing a romantic comedy - I'd be bored to death.;Joaquin Phoenix;death
14088;It's not life or death it's a game and at the end of the game there is going to be a winner and a loser.;Bernhard Langer;death
14089;Miller didn't write Death of a Salesman. He released it. It was there inside him, waiting to be turned loose. That's the measure of its merit.;Elia Kazan;death
14090;Death is like an arrow that is already in flight, and your life lasts only until it reaches you.;Georg Hermes;death
14091;I was never afraid of failure after that because, I think, coming that close to death you get kissed. With the years, the actual experience of course fades, but the flavor of it doesn't. I just had a real sense of what choice do I have but to live fully?;Debra Winger;death
14092;I think that obviously, there is a perverse attraction to a fundamentally changed world or the end of the world. There is a death wish, a perverse death wish. Not just for ourselves, not just for the movie 'Death Wish,' but for the end of all human life.;John Hodgman;death
14093;When you think about it, the end of the world is a little bit like death: We all know it's going to come eventually, and as we get older, we feel we see the signs more and more distinctly.;John Hodgman;death
14094;I try to write lyrics so that they won't age, which sort of leaves you with the big subjects like death and love and sex and violence.;Florence Welch;death
14095;A friend said to me, 'Be glad for your troubles - they strengthen you.' Well, if that's the truth, I'm going to be so strong they'll have to beat me to death!;Sonia Johnson;death
14096;She goes through the vale of death alone, each time a babe is born. As it is the right neither of man nor the state to coerce her into this ordeal, so it is her right to decide whether she will endure it.;Margaret Sanger;death
14097;Emigration is no longer a solution it's a defeat. People are risking death, drowning every day, but they're knocking on doors that are not open.;Tahar Ben Jelloun;death
14098;In Goddess religion death is not feared, but is understood to be a part of life, followed by birth and renewal.;Carol P. Christ;death
14099;Death's an old joke, but each individual encounters it anew.;Ivan Turgenev;death
14100;Feminists bore me to death. I follow my instinct and if that supports young girls in any way, great. But I'd rather they saw it more as a lesson about following their own instincts rather than imitating somebody.;Bjork;death
14101;No real English gentleman, in his secret soul, was ever sorry for the death of a political economist.;Walter Bagehot;death
14102;There are hundreds of Frank Lloyd Wright buildings around the United States and in other countries, too. Wright lived into his 90s, and one of his most famous buildings, the Guggenheim Museum in New York, was completed just before his death. Wright buildings look like Wright buildings - that is their paradox.;Jane Smiley;death
14103;Vets do what doctors used to - diagnose the injury or the condition, patch it up as best they can and remind you that these things happen and that in life we are also in the midst of death.;Jane Smiley;death
14104;Somehow, knowing that Alzheimer's is coming mocks all one's aspirations - to tell stories, to think through certain issues as only a novel can do, to be recognised for one's accomplishments and hard work - in a way that old familiar death does not.;Jane Smiley;death
14105;We should weep for men at their birth, not at their death.;Charles de Montesquieu;death
14106;You only live twice. Once when you are born and once when you look death in the face.;Ian Fleming;death
14107;I think when you're 10 years old, it's too much to see something with the threat of death in every episode. Kids are better left naive about certain things.;J. J. Abrams;death
14108;I love myself. Anything that has my name I'm tickled to death.;Barbara Corcoran;death
14109;Sin brought death, and death will disappear with the disappearance of sin.;Mary Baker Eddy;death
14110;There is nothing glamorous about death.;Roger Moore;death
14111;My book 'Trust Your Heart', which is the story of my life, will be followed by 'Singing Lessons', a memoir of love, loss, hope, and healing, which talks about the death of my son and the hope that has been the aftermath of the healing from that tragedy.;Judy Collins;death
14112;Defeat the fear of death and welcome the death of fear.;G. Gordon Liddy;death
14113;The coward sneaks to death the brave live on.;George Sewell;death
14114;Only those who spread treachery, fire, and death out of hatred for the prosperity of others are undeserving of pity.;Jose Marti;death
14115;If the heart stops for more than two minutes, you have massive brain death. There are only two minutes between our conscious world and zero. That's how fragile our consciousness is.;Robin Gibb;death
14116;The police came to me to say I had death threats and that I had to be careful!;Heather Mills;death
14117;I believe in the institution of marriage. Of course being a Mormon, we believe in eternity rather than just till death do us part. If you really try hard, if you make it work, it's blissful. But I also know a marriage that isn't working can be painful.;Donny Osmond;death
14118;I couldn't have foreseen all the good things that have followed my mother's death. The renewed energy, the surprising sweetness of grief. The tenderness I feel for strangers on walkers. The deeper love I have for my siblings and friends. The desire to play the mandolin. The gift of a visitation.;Mary Schmich;death
14119;You haven't lost anything when you know were it is. Death can hide but not divide.;Vance Havner;death
14120;I think people would be alive today if there were a death penalty.;Nancy Reagan;death
14121;As far as my divorce goes, I love my family and I love my wife to death and I just don't know what tomorrow's going to bring.;Hulk Hogan;death
14122;I have had death threats from people with fixations.;Enya;death
14123;Loss and possession, death and life are one, There falls no shadow where there shines no sun.;Hilaire Belloc;death
14124;People who are sick, or who have been sick, or have come close to death have a lot to say - and they want you to hear it.;Anna Deavere Smith;death
14125;Living with the immediacy of death helps you sort out your priorities in life. It helps you to live a less trivial life.;Sogyal Rinpoche;death
14126;The line between life or death is determined by what we are willing to do.;Bear Grylls;death
14127;Bulls can do nothing to demand justice. They can only defend themselves as best they can in a fight with a pre-determined ending and die never knowing why they were forced to endure such a painful and prolonged death. It's up to us, as a civilized society, to call for an end to the Running of the Bulls and bullfighting.;Ingrid Newkirk;death
14128;My faith isn't very churchy, it's a pretty personal, intimate thing and has been a huge source of strength in moments of life and death.;Bear Grylls;death
14129;More than 100 people have been sent to death row who were later exonerated because they weren't guilty or fairly tried. Most criminal defendants do not get adequate representation because there are not enough public defenders to represent them. There is a lot that is wrong.;John Grisham;death
14130;Why would you be afraid of death? It would be an inconvenience. I have a lot of undone things and it's bound to get in the way. But, no, it doesn't scare me at all.;David Carradine;death
14131;We weep over the graves of infants and the little ones taken from us by death but an early grave may be the shortest way to heaven.;Tryon Edwards;death
14132;Everything that is necessary is also easy. You just have to accept it. And the most necessary, the most natural matter on this planet is death.;Friedrich Durrenmatt;death
14133;I was ready to quit music. It felt to me like music equalled death.;Dave Grohl;death
14134;Beauty is a precious trace that eternity causes to appear to us and that it takes away from us. A manifestation of eternity, and a sign of death as well.;Eugene Ionesco;death
14135;I really wanted to do something positive on the Internet. I wanted to try to get young people talking about, thinking about, life's big questions-make it cool and OK to wonder about the heart, the soul and free will and God and death and big topics like that, big human topics.;Rainn Wilson;death
14136;I think that the core doctrines of Christianity - the incarnation, the resurrection, life after death-these are as strong as ever. In fact, the belief in life after death has increased in this century.;Andrew Greeley;death
14137;Of all the artists on Death Row, none of them went bankrupt.;Suge Knight;death
14138;For any culture which is primarily concerned with meaning, the study of death - the only certainty that life holds for us - must be central, for an understanding of death is the key to liberation in life.;Stanislav Grof;death
14139;The study of consciousness that can extend beyond the body is extremely important for the issue of survival, since it is this part of human personality that would be likely to survive death.;Stanislav Grof;death
14140;The motif of death plays an important role the human psyche in connection with archetypal and karmic material.;Stanislav Grof;death
14141;The materialistic paradigm of Western science has been a major obstacle for any objective evaluation of the data describing the events occurring at the time of death.;Stanislav Grof;death
14142;The knowledge of the realm of death makes it possible for the shaman to move freely back and forth and mediate these journeys for other people.;Stanislav Grof;death
14143;The experiences associated with death were seen as visits to important dimensions of reality that deserved to be experienced, studied, and carefully mapped.;Stanislav Grof;death
14144;The elimination of the fear of death transforms the individual's way of being in the world.;Stanislav Grof;death
14145;Research challenges the materialistic understanding of death, according to which biological death represents the final end of existence and of all conscious activity.;Stanislav Grof;death
14146;Individuals approaching death often experience encounters with their dead relatives, who seem to welcome them to the next world. These deathbed visions are authentic and convincing they are often followed by a state of euphoria and seem to ease the transition.;Stanislav Grof;death
14147;If consciousness can function independently of the body during one's lifetime, it could be able to do the same after death.;Stanislav Grof;death
14148;Dying before dying has two important consequences: It liberates the individual from the fear of death and influences the actual experience of dying at the time of biological demise.;Stanislav Grof;death
14149;A number of cases have been reported in which a dying individual has a vision of a person about whose death he or she did not know.;Stanislav Grof;death
14150;The drink? Yes, I've had tough times in my life, especially the last year, regarding my ex-wife, my kids, I nearly broke my neck, I was on death row with pneumonia.;Paul Gascoigne;death
14151;Though I am a Catholic, a professing one, I have serious doubts about the survival of the human personality after death.;Taylor Caldwell;death
14152;I'm death obsessed. You know, I have death all over my house. I have a stuffed two headed sheep!;Kirk Hammett;death
14153;Since fame is an illusion and death is in our future all we have is the next moment before we are swallowed into oblivion.;Al Goldstein;death
14154;Of course, we avoid death. To know something is inevitable is one thing. To accept, to truly feel it... that's different.;Michael Haneke;death
14155;We all labor against our own cure, for death is the cure of all diseases.;Thomas Browne;death
14156;Life itself is but the shadow of death, and souls departed but the shadows of the living.;Thomas Browne;death
14157;What is ironic is that Allen Ginsberg's importance was in its twilight for so many years that it took his death to bring it to the front page. He electrified an entire world!;Rita Dove;death
14158;When I see someone who is starved, they don't look alert. They don't have boundless energy. If you're too skinny, it looks like you're near death.;Kirstie Alley;death
14159;'American Horror' goes for a very specific kind of Seventies suburban downer ambience - 'Flowers in the Attic' paperbacks, Black Sabbath album covers and late-night flicks like 'Let's Scare Jessica to Death.' It even has 'Go Ask Alice'-era urban legends.;Rob Sheffield;death
14160;People want the right to die at a time of their own choosing. Too many families have watched helplessly as a relative dies slowly, longing for death.;Polly Toynbee;death
14161;When I die, don't let my death stop the resistance.;Muqtada al Sadr;death
14162;It's a matter of life and death for this country. The Kenyan forests are facing extinction and it is a man-made problem.;Wangari Maathai;death
14163;It's something I want to overcome. And my kids are scared to death to fly. I want them to witness me overcome it.;Travis Barker;death
14164;Death by starvation is slow.;Mary Austin;death
14165;Libertarians know that a free country has nothing to fear from anyone coming in or going out - while a welfare state is scared to death of poor people coming in and rich people getting out.;Harry Browne;death
14166;Women have not yet realized the cowardice that resides, for if they should decide to do so, they would be able to fight you until death and to prove that I speak the truth, amongst so many women, I will be the first to act, setting an example for them to follow.;Veronica Franco;death
14167;Sickness, insanity and death were the angels that surrounded my cradle and they have followed me throughout my life.;Edvard Munch;death
14168;There are people who never experience that, who remain closed until death, from fear of change.;Isabelle Adjani;death
14169;One of the big questions in the climate change debate: Are humans any smarter than frogs in a pot? If you put a frog in a pot and slowly turn up the heat, it won't jump out. Instead, it will enjoy the nice warm bath until it is cooked to death. We humans seem to be doing pretty much the same thing.;Jeff Goodell;death
14170;In this situation I was constantly exposed to danger and death.;Daniel Boone;death
14171;We were then in a dangerous, helpless situation, exposed daily to perils and death amongst savages and wild beasts, not a white man in the country but ourselves.;Daniel Boone;death
14172;I had always loved John Ford's pictures. And I came to love him, too, but I was frightened to death working for him. He used the shock treatment while directing me.;Ethel Waters;death
14173;Hitchcock had to fight to the death to make his movies.;Alex Winter;death
14174;After my mother's death, I had such difficulty relating to people.;Jaron Lanier;death
14175;The Supreme Court of the United States... has validated the Nazi method of execution in... concentration camps, starving them to death.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14176;I will admit, like Socrates and Aristotle and Plato and some other philosophers, that there are instances where the death penalty would seem appropriate.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14177;Not one has shown an iota of fear of death. They want to end this agony.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14178;If Christ can die in a barn, I think the death of a human in a van is not so bad.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14179;You've gotta know what death is to know life!;Jack Kevorkian;death
14180;I hate to say this, but I'll repeat it: After death, all we know that you do is stink.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14181;There's stuff I don't like to rehearse, really emotional things, I don't like to rehearse. You just beat it to death.;Kat Dennings;death
14182;I'm trying to knock the medical profession into accepting its responsibilities, and those responsibilities include assisting their patients with death.;Jack Kevorkian;death
14183;Nobody with an IQ higher than emergency-room temperature could ever believe that 'death panels' would be appointed to nudge the elderly toward euthanasia. Yet for idle entertainment, it's hard to beat Sarah Palin's ignorant nattering on the subject.;Carl Hiaasen;death
14184;The miser, starving his brother's body, starves also his own soul, and at death shall creep out of his great estate of injustice, poor and naked and miserable.;Theodore Parker;death
14185;I'm not supposed to be able to speak clearly, and decipher what's going on in the media. I'm supposed to be the typical amateur who's 22 and scared to death and can't believe he won the Olympics.;Carl Lewis;death
14186;I stay way from that area, and there's only so many songs you can write about love, sex and death.;Peter Steele;death
14187;My death will be caused by morphine, which I have deliberately taken with suicidal intent.;Alex Campbell;death
14188;A Shakespearean tragedy as so far considered may be called a story of exceptional calamity leading to the death of a man in high estate. But it is clearly much more than this, and we have now to regard it from another side.;Andrew Coyle Bradley;death
14189;The American people are not just being taxed to death they're being taxed after death. But, no one should have to sell the life's work of a parent or a loved one just to pay the federal government.;J. D. Hayworth;death
14190;We worry about the seemingly ever-increasing number of natural catastrophes. Yet this is mainly a consequence of CNN - we see many more, but the number is roughly constant, and we manage to deal much better with them over time. Globally, the death rate from catastrophes has dropped about fifty-fold over the past century.;Bjorn Lomborg;death
14191;I am politically pro-choice, but personally pro-life. I have my faith but refuse to force it on the world at large - especially this world, so brutal and unjust. I cannot make these wrenching personal life and death decisions for others - nor do I believe they should be made by a church run by childless men.;Julianna Baggott;death
14192;And, in a funny way, each death is different and you mourn each death differently and each death brings back the death you mourned earlier and you get into a bit of a pile-up.;Nigella Lawson;death
14193;We burned to death 100,000 Japanese civilians in Tokyo - men, women and children. LeMay recognized that what he was doing would be thought immoral if his side had lost. But what makes it immoral if you lose and not immoral if you win?;Robert McNamara;death
14194;It's normally the kiss of death to be identified as a rising star, or someone to watch.;George Osborne;death
14195;I was writing a scene where a guy was choking another guy to death. You can go online and type 'chokeholds' and watch scenes where martial artists choke each other out. You can hear what noises they make when they go unconscious, see how their bodies flop and everything. YouTube is amazing for the more detailed stuff.;Daniel H. Wilson;death
14196;Over the past 50 years we got versions of X-ray specs and space vacations, and even death rays. But the X-ray specs don't fit on your face - they're big things that screen your luggage for guns. Space vacations are real, but they cost $20 million. We have death rays, but you have to be a triple Ph.D. to play with them.;Daniel H. Wilson;death
14197;Life is like a very short visit to a toyshop between birth and death.;Desmond Morris;death
14198;They can rule the world while they can persuade us our pain belongs in some order is death by famine worse than death by suicide, than a life of famine and suicide...?;Adrienne Rich;death
14199;Until the day of his death, no man can be sure of his courage.;Jean Anouilh;death
14200;He who is obsessed by death is made guilty by it.;Elias Canetti;death
14201;There is no such thing as an ugly language. Today I hear every language as if it were the only one, and when I hear of one that is dying, it overwhelms me as though it were the death of the earth.;Elias Canetti;death
14202;The first novel I wrote was a monster - clocking in at 180,000 words - but it died a death, a death it deserved. It was called 'The Gods First Make Mad.' It was a good title, but it was the only good thing about the book. I didn't let that put me off.;Wilbur Smith;death
14203;I have sometimes imagined my own death and brought myself to tears.;Martin Short;death
14204;Any existence deprived of freedom is a kind of death.;Michel Aoun;death
14205;But for me, it is when a student has died. I find the death of a young person the most difficult and painful of times. To explain it to other young people, to see a bright future snuffed out, is just awful. I am haunted by those deaths.;Donna Shalala;death
14206;Nothing is absolute, with the debatable exceptions of this statement and death.;John Ralston Saul;death
14207;I'm watching the Weather Channel more than I've ever watched it. I'm scared to death it's going to rain.;John Elway;death
14208;Nature creates while destroying, and doesn't care whether it creates or destroys as long as life isn't extinguished, as long as death doesn't lose its rights.;Ivan Turgenev;death
14209;If you have fun, fine. It's not all life and death.;Bill Parcells;death
14210;When the courts decide that murderers, rapists, and others who maliciously break our social contract deserve health care that most working Americans can't afford, they are condemning good people to death.;Tammy Bruce;death
14211;People need jobs, people need happy and successful lives there should be marriage between one man and one woman, there should the value of person from conception until natural death.;Alveda King;death
14212;It comes with faith, for with complete faith there is no fear of what faces you in life or death.;Jacqueline Cochran;death
14213;I think life is sacred, whether it's abortion or the death penalty.;Tim Kaine;death
14214;I am deeply saddened by the death of my dear friend, Dudley Moore.;Liza Minnelli;death
14215;Instead of joyfully looking forward to my birth, my mother began systematically preparing for her own death. She was fatalistic.;Lorna Luft;death
14216;Cause at the end of the day, honestly, at the end of the day when you're in your death bed and that's it, I think it's the relationships you've had and the people that you've touched and the people that have touched you that matter.;Julie Benz;death
14217;As a comic, you try something and if it works you go with it and grind it to death.;Alexei Sayle;death
14218;I've accentuated the look over the years. As a comic, you try something and if it works you go with it and grind it to death.;Alexei Sayle;death
14219;The writer crafts their ideal world. In my world, everyone has really long conversations or just picks apart pop culture to death and everyone talks in monologue.;Kevin Smith;death
14220;Our law is a Jordanian law that we inherited, which applies to both the West Bank and Gaza, and sets the death penalty for those who sell land to Israelis.;Yasser Arafat;death
14221;If I ever completely lost my nervousness I would be frightened half to death.;Paul Lynde;death
14222;I think I might actually die of showing off. It'll be on my headstone - 'Cause of Death: Showing Off."
When we have done our best, we can, as a united people, take whatever may befall with calm courage and confidence that this old nation will survive and if death should come to many of us, death is not the end.
I think to have the skill set and the ability to physically help others in matters of life and death must be incredibly empowering.
I don't think of death in a romantic way anymore.
To have been torn from the study would have been as death my time was entirely occupied with art.
When I was younger, I wasn't concentrating on good days. I was managing a career and trying to have a good year. It would always 'lead' to something, which never leads to anything except death, where everything leads to. And then as I got older, and then I had my kids and everything, I began to appreciate a great Wednesday.
If you wish to make a man look noble, your best course is to kill him. What superiority he may have inherited from his race, what superiority nature may have personally gifted him with, comes out in death.
Death is the ugly fact which Nature has to hide, and she hides it well.
I like death. I'm a big fan of it.
It's certain that the death of an actor can be on a television screen playing the same thing every week.
In these dangerous times, where it seems the world is ripping apart at the seams, we can all learn how to survive from those who stare death squarely in the face every day, and we should reach out to each other and bond as a community, rather than hide from the terrors of life at the end of the millennium.
Between our birth and death we may touch understanding, As a moth brushes a window with its wing.
Washington, not Jefferson, freed his slaves upon his death.
There are some people who walk into a room and they oxygenate it, by their very being there's fresh air. Then there are those who come in with the smell of death and they suck the life out.
When we play 'Angel of Death', it's actually a 2 and half minutes sing 'til our party starts. That song is pretty much been played traditionally in the end.
Patrick Henry did not say, 'Give me absolutely safety or give me death.' America is supposed to be about freedom.
Lots of people there seemed to be in denial, in absolute denial, of death - everybody's pretending that death doesn't happen in L.A. if you do enough exercise and take enough wheatgrass and have your pill every day, you might not die.
On the basis of biological, sociological, and historical knowledge, we should recognize that the individual self is subject to death or decay, but the sum total of individual achievement, for better or worse, lives on in the immortality of The Larger.
I just don't get death at all. Yes, it's there. But I don't get it.
I can't let my mother's death have been in vain. Democracy is the best revenge, and we will have it.
You should celebrate the end of a love affair as they celebrate death in New Orleans, with songs, laughter, dancing and a lot of wine.
Nothing is a matter of life and death except life and death.
He killed his enemies because he was afraid they would kill him. Amin ordered entire tribes to be put to death, because he feared they would rebel.
To be clear, climate change is a true 800 pound gorilla in the room. The effects of global warming threaten global environmental upheaval over the coming century. But for South Florida and the Everglades, it could be our death knell if urgent action is not taken.
It's funny, though, speaking of fathers and sons, because me and John Goodman played father and son, like, five or six years ago in the film 'Death Sentence,' and I got back with him again in 'Inside Llewyn Davis.'
You know, I've never actually really believed that death is inevitable. I just think it's a rumor.
I rely on guns for protection in life. God does not say, 'This is la-la land.' God doesn't say, 'Welcome to Earth. Everything's perfect. There's no crime. There's no murder. There's no death.' The world is imperfect, and you have to be on guard.
I don't want to hear about my death.
The situation in the United States is becoming more dire for average ordinary Americans and the last thing we need to do is to spend money on death, destruction and war.
Death doesn't frighten me now I can think peacefully of ending a long life.
Defeat the fear of death and you welcome the death of fear.
The illness, and the untimely death of my brothers, has made me conscious of the fact that - rather than just think about it - it's crucial that you do today what you want to do.
The cult of the individual is killing us. I think Twitter signals the death of western civilisation, but people have been saying that since Demosthenes.
You realize that however much you don't think about death - or think that's for other people - you're just an organism living from day to day. I'm just grateful I'm here.
I think about death a lot, I really do, because I can't believe I won't exist. It's the ego isn't it? I feel that I should retreat into a better form of Zen Buddhism than this kind of ego-dominated thing. But I don't know, I mean, I want to come back as a tree but I suspect that it's just not going to happen, is it?
The die is set and Malcolm will not escape for the foolish talk he spoke against his benefactor, such a man, is worthy of death, and it would have been so, were it not for Muhammad's confidence that God would give him the victory over the enemies.
If the human condition were the periodic table, maybe love would be hydrogen at No. 1. Death would be helium at No. 2. Power, I reckon, would be where oxygen is.
Any film which views the darker side of life, which is death with a sense of humor, is very much to my taste.
My death, taking the light from my eyes, gives back to the day the purity which they soiled.
Here's a thing about the death of your mother, or anyone else you love: You can't anticipate how you'll feel afterward. People will tell you a few may be close to right, none exactly right.
It is not death, but dying, which is terrible.
I believe the death of Bobby Kennedy was in many ways the death of decency in America. I think it was the death of manners and formality, the death of poetry and the death of a dream.
When I was on a major label I felt obliged to say yes to every interview, tour and whatever else. The label is always telling you, 'This ain't going to last,' so I worked myself half to death. I learnt from that and I like to pace myself now.
Most of the debate over the cultures of death and life is about process. The debate focuses on the technology available to determine how we prolong life and how and when we end it.
If you think aficionados of a living Constitution want to bring you flexibility, think again. You think the death penalty is a good idea? Persuade your fellow citizens to adopt it. You want a right to abortion? Persuade your fellow citizens and enact it. That's flexibility.
Death is a very important part of life.
Not all moral issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia. There may be legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not... with regard to abortion and euthanasia.
Depakote also has a really bad side effect, which is death.
I think that much of this was running in background as I contemplated whether or not to attend the PS 99 reunion, although I certainly anticipated that I would not it smelled like death, not youth.
As a reward for their efforts, however, those early Christians were beaten, stoned to death, thrown to the lions, tortured and crucified. Every conceivable method was used to stop them from talking.
The death penalty is being applied in the United States as a fatal lottery.
I was in two episodes playing Christopher Reeve's character's emissary. They wanted to have my character announce Dr Swan's death, which I thought was exploitative.
Planning to play: that's what saving for retirement is today - and it is antithetical to the nature of play, fully within the definition of work, and blissfully ignorant of the reality of death.
I'm not on the run from anything and I'm not at all clear about what I'm running towards. But as some great writer put it, I want to be certain that when I arrive at death, I'm totally exhausted.
So here is one of my theories on happiness: we cannot know if we have lived a truly happy life until the very end. This view of life and death was reinforced by my close witnessing of the buildup to the death of Philip Gould. Philip was without doubt my closest friend in politics. When he died, I felt like I had lost a limb.
What we think of as our sensitivity is only the higher evolution of terror in a poor dumb beast. We suffer for nothing. Our own death wish is our only real tragedy.
I start thinking about life after death. I've got to quit thinking about it because it's very deep. Very deep. Sometimes you start thinking about it, and you don't feel like you want to be alive, so I don't like to get all quiet.
When we are dealing with death we are constantly being dragged down by the event: Humor diverts our attention and lifts our sagging spirits.
"Vote Love' means vote equality. It means vote change. It means vote what's right for humanity.;Macklemore;equality
17235;We will have bigger bureaucracies, bigger labor unions, and bigger state-run corporations. It will be harder to be an entrepreneur because of punitive taxes and regulations. The rewards of success will be expropriated for the sake of attaining greater income equality.;Arthur C. Brooks;equality
17236;It will appear evident upon attentive consideration that equality of intellectual and physical advantages is the only sure foundation of liberty, and that such equality may best, and perhaps only, be obtained by a union of interests and cooperation in labor.;Francis Wright;equality
17237;When I look at my daughter, who's 24, she is much more confident than I ever was and her expectations are higher. But I worry that there is a backlash brewing against progress on equality.;Frances O'Grady;equality
17238;Do people really want liberty, equality, fraternity? Is it not some manner of speaking?;Krzysztof Kieslowski;equality
17239;On the one hand we publicly pronounce the equality of all peoples on the other hand, in our immigration laws, we embrace in practice these very theories we abhor and verbally condemn.;Emanuel Celler;equality
17240;In choosing global corporate partners UNICEF emphasises compatibility with our core values and looks to build alliances that advance our mission of ensuring the health, education, equality and protection for all the world's children.;Carol Bellamy;equality
17241;The American economic, political, and social organization has given to its citizens the benefits of material prosperity, political liberty, and a wholesome natural equality and this achievement is a gain, not only to Americans, but to the world and to civilization.;Herbert Croly;equality
17242;Free trade is very important if we respect equality among nations.;Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva;equality
17243;Effective use of Braille is as important to the blind as independent mobility, knowledge in the use of adaptive technology, and the core belief that equality, opportunity and security are truly possible for all people who are blind.;Bob Ney;equality
17244;In the kingdom of consumption the citizen is king. A democratic monarchy: equality before consumption, fraternity in consumption, and freedom through consumption.;Raoul Vaneigem;equality
17245;The work that must be done for each woman to reconnect with her psyche and to give herself a chance to live her own life is essentially the same. The realization of the equality of all races, the equality of all beings is essential.;Betty Buckley;equality
17246;Propelled by freedom of faith, gender equality and economic justice for all, India will become a modern nation. Minor blemishes cannot cloak the fact that India is becoming such a modern nation: no faith is in danger in our country, and the continuing commitment to gender equality is one of the great narratives of our times.;Pranab Mukherjee;equality
17247;I would point out that Japan's proposal at the Versailles Peace Conference on the principle of racial equality was rejected by delegates such as those from Britain and the United States.;Hideki Tojo;equality
17248;Such security is equal liberty. But it is not necessarily equality in the use of the earth.;Benjamin Tucker;equality
17249;A resilient people cherishing liberty and equality and the rule of law will endure.;Nick Rahall;equality
17250;America, 5 years after this brutal attack, is testament that a Nation conceived in liberty and equality will endure. It is a triumph of millions of Americans but it is also the triumph of an idea larger than any one person, larger than any one nation.;Nick Rahall;equality
17251;The mandate I have received and for which I will speak with heart and head to implement over the next seven years had its four pillars - an inclusive citizenship, equality and participation and respect in a creative society creating an excellence in everything we Irish do.;Michael D. Higgins;equality
17252;The history of the past is but one long struggle upward to equality.;Elizabeth Cady Stanton;equality
17253;In a society in which equality is a fact, not merely a word, words of racial or sexual assault and humiliation will be nonsense syllables.;Catharine MacKinnon;equality
17254;The basis, the corner-stone of this Government, was the perfect equality of the free, sovereign, and independent States which made it.;Robert Toombs;equality
17255;Give us equality of enjoyment, equal right to expansion - it is as necessary to our prosperity as yours.;Robert Toombs;equality
17256;The March on Washington affirmed our values as a people: equality and opportunity for all. Forty-one years ago, during a time of segregation, these were an ideal.;Leonard Boswell;equality
17257;Well, my personal mission statement is that we want marriage equality in all 50 states. We want it not to be a state-by-state issue. We don't want it to be something the majority is voting on. I don't think the civil rights of any minority should be in the hands of any majority.;Jesse Tyler Ferguson;equality
17258;As an actor, you just want to work, and then you just want to be on a show or have a job that you love, and you hope that job will last - those things have happened. To have that platform to then talk about something that is very personal to me like marriage equality, it feels like a gift. I try and really respect that voice and not abuse it.;Jesse Tyler Ferguson;equality
17259;And think of how we challenged the idea of a male dominated Parliament with All-Women shortlists and made the cause of gender equality central to our government. We were right to do so.;Ed Miliband;equality
17260;Scotland is my country, the nation that shaped me, that taught me my values. A nation whose achievements inspired and inspire me, a community whose failings drive me - drive my overwhelming desire to fight for social justice and equality.;Johann Lamont;equality
17261;There needs to be radical development in equality law to create the environment to allow women to stay in work.;Ken Livingstone;equality
17262;As a partner in a firm full of women who work outside of the home as well as stay at home mothers, all with plenty of children, gender equality is not a talking point for me. It is an issue I live every day.;Hilary Rosen;equality
17263;I said on the equality side of it, that it is essential to a woman's equality with man that she be the decision-maker, that her choice be controlling.;Ruth Bader Ginsburg;equality
17264;Earlier feminists were almost universally pro-choice and have dominated political debate until now. Having access to abortion was viewed as the only way women could have full equality with men, who, until recently, couldn't get pregnant.;Kathleen Parker;equality
17265;A formally recognized equality does, however, accord the smaller nations a position which they should be able to use increasingly in the interest of humanity as a whole and in the service of the ideal.;Hjalmar Branting;equality
17266;The equality among all members of the League, which is provided in the statutes giving each state only one vote, cannot of course abolish the actual material inequality of the powers concerned.;Hjalmar Branting;equality
17267;It wouldn't be fair to say that conservatives cherish property the way liberals cherish equality. But it would be fair to say that the takings clause is the conservatives' recipe for judicial activism just as they say liberals have misused the equal protection clause.;Michael Kinsley;equality
17268;We are also further than ever from equality of opportunity.;Ferdinand Mount;equality
17269;Equality of rights means that some people cannot simply impose obligations on others, for the moral agency and rights of those others would then be violated.;Tom G. Palmer;equality
17270;As a result of America's efforts to realize the ideals of equality and freedom, blacks in America are now the freest and richest black people anywhere on the face of the earth including all of the nations that are ruled by blacks.;David Horowitz;equality
17271;Women have talent and intelligence but, due to social constraints and prejudices, it is still a long distance away from the goal of gender equality.;Pratibha Patil;equality
17272;I think men are allowed to be fat and bald and ugly and women aren't. And it's just not - there is no equality there.;Connie Chung;equality
17273;Everybody thinks that equality comes from identifying people, and that's not where equality comes from.;Matt Bomer;equality
17274;You got to fight for quality art and equality and all the things that we're fighting for, the things we believe in. Choice and preference and all those things that we support. We don't want to give up that fight. You got to keep doing it.;Christopher Cross;equality
17275;I joined the Labour party because I believed in equality, in freedom of speech and in tolerance, compassion and understanding for people, irrespective of their background and views. In whatever I decide to do in the future I will hold to those principles.;Geoff Hoon;equality
17276;Obviously, my life and my job in 2010 is very different from Peggy's experience in the 1960s. I exist in a world that enjoys more equality between men and women. But I don't take any of that into my performance. I just want to play the character as who she is as an individual - scene to scene.;Elizabeth Moss;equality
17277;Martin Luther King, Jr. didn't carry just a piece of cloth to symbolize his belief in racial equality he carried the American flag.;Adrian Cronauer;equality
17278;At a time when efforts are being made to eradicate discrimination between the sexes in the search for social equality and justice, the differences between the sexes are being rediscovered.;Carol Gilligan;equality
17279;Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a time to honor the greatest champion of racial equality who taught a nation - through compassion and courage - about democracy, nonviolence and racial justice.;Mark Pryor;equality
17280;The right to a quality education is, I believe, the perfect path to bridge the gap between different cultures and to reconcile various civilizations. Without such a right, the values of liberty, justice and equality will have no meaning. Ignorance is by far the biggest danger and threat to humankind.;Mozah bint Nasser Al Missned;equality
17281;Now they have come to the place where their faith can no longer feed on the bread of repression and violence. They ask for the bread of liberty, of public equality, and public responsibility. It must not be denied them.;Mordecai Wyatt Johnson;equality
17282;The goal of the EU is to form a region of freedom, security and justice. Freedom in this connection cannot be just the freedom of the strong, but it must be combined with fraternity and equality.;Tarja Halonen;equality
17283;Family law is institutionally anti-male. I've been lobbying MPs, and I'm not going to give up campaigning for equality until I get equality.;Louis de Bernieres;equality
17284;The only way to ensure equality for women is to clearly declare it in our Constitution.;Carolyn Maloney;equality
17285;What is being called the UN 'gender architecture' is more like a shack. Women need a bigger global house if equality is ever to become a reality.;Charlotte Bunch;equality
17286;I will feel equality has arrived when we can elect to office women who are as incompetent as some of the men who are already there.;Maureen Reagan;equality
17287;The Internet is the hope of an integrated world without frontiers, a common world without controlling owners, a world of opportunities and equality. This is a utopia that we have been dreaming about and is a world in which each and every one of us are protagonists of a destiny that we have in our hands.;Laura Chinchilla;equality
17288;Think of submitting our measure to the advice of politicians! I would as soon submit the subject of the equality of a goose to a fox.;Anna Howard Shaw;equality
17289;On the road to equality there is no better place for blacks to detour around American values than in forgoing its example in the treatment of its women and the organization of its family.;Eleanor Holmes Norton;equality
17290;The highest political buzz word is not liberty, equality, fraternity or solidarity it is service.;Arthur Hugh Clough;equality
17291;Dreams from 1991 are becoming reality. We will build good relations between nations and people. We will strive towards mutual respect and equality of every individual, sex, race and national or any other minority.;Janez Drnovsek;equality
17292;Humanistic values of equality and equal rights for all nations and individuals as crystallized in the principles of the United Nations Charter are mankind's great achievements in the 20th century.;Tran Duc Luong;equality
17293;The Nordic countries are leading the way on women's equality, recognizing women as equal citizens rather than commodities for sale.;Johanna Siguroardottir;equality
17294;There are a lot of things that fit on a bumper sticker in terms of either liberty or equality or progress that when made more concrete just don't pan out.;Laurence Tribe;equality
17295;If money, education, and honesty will not bring to me as much privilege, as much equality as they bring to any American citizen, then they are to me a curse, and not a blessing.;John Hope;equality
17296;Distinctions between citizens solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality.;Harlan Stone;equality
17297;The bill neither confers nor abridges the rights of anyone but simply declares that in civil rights there shall be equality among all classes of citizens and that all alike shall be subject to the same punishment.;Lyman Trumbull;equality
17298;Demands for equality for women are threats to men's self-esteem and sense of sexual turf.;Alice S. Rossi;equality
17299;Equality means nothing unless incorporated into the institutions.;Slobodan Milosevic;equality
17300;Yugoslavia is a multinational community and it can survive only under the conditions of full equality for all nations that live in it.;Slobodan Milosevic;equality
17301;Life can only be understood backwards but it must be lived forwards.;Soren Kierkegaard;experience
17302;The only source of knowledge is experience.;Albert Einstein;experience
17303;Experience: that most brutal of teachers. But you learn, my God do you learn.;C. S. Lewis;experience
17304;Experience is simply the name we give our mistakes.;Oscar Wilde;experience
17305;A man who carries a cat by the tail learns something he can learn in no other way.;Mark Twain;experience
17306;It has been my experience that folks who have no vices have very few virtues.;Abraham Lincoln;experience
17307;We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are spiritual beings having a human experience.;Pierre Teilhard de Chardin;experience
17308;Experience is one thing you can't get for nothing.;Oscar Wilde;experience
17309;People grow through experience if they meet life honestly and courageously. This is how character is built.;Eleanor Roosevelt;experience
17310;Man learns through experience, and the spiritual path is full of different kinds of experiences. He will encounter many difficulties and obstacles, and they are the very experiences he needs to encourage and complete the cleansing process.;Sai Baba;experience
17311;A mind that is stretched by a new experience can never go back to its old dimensions.;Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.;experience
17312;Do you know the difference between education and experience? Education is when you read the fine print experience is what you get when you don't.;Pete Seeger;experience
17313;Human beings, who are almost unique in having the ability to learn from the experience of others, are also remarkable for their apparent disinclination to do so.;Douglas Adams;experience
17314;The years teach much which the days never know.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;experience
17315;Excellence is not a skill. It is an attitude.;Ralph Marston;experience
17316;Life is the art of drawing without an eraser.;John W. Gardner;experience
17317;A woman's life can really be a succession of lives, each revolving around some emotionally compelling situation or challenge, and each marked off by some intense experience.;Wallis Simpson;experience
17318;I made decisions that I regret, and I took them as learning experiences... I'm human, not perfect, like anybody else.;Queen Latifah;experience
17319;You cannot create experience. You must undergo it.;Albert Camus;experience
17320;Everything has been said before, but since nobody listens we have to keep going back and beginning all over again.;Andre Gide;experience
17321;When you have really exhausted an experience you always reverence and love it.;Albert Camus;experience
17322;Nothing ever becomes real till it is experienced.;John Keats;experience
17323;Nothing is a waste of time if you use the experience wisely.;Auguste Rodin;experience
17324;Experience is the teacher of all things.;Julius Caesar;experience
17325;If we could sell our experiences for what they cost us, we'd all be millionaires.;Abigail Van Buren;experience
17326;Experience teaches only the teachable.;Aldous Huxley;experience
17327;Experience enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.;Franklin P. Jones;experience
17328;Bitter experience has taught us how fundamental our values are and how great the mission they represent.;Jan Peter Balkenende;experience
17329;Experience - the wisdom that enables us to recognise in an undesirable old acquaintance the folly that we have already embraced.;Ambrose Bierce;experience
17330;Conviction without experience makes for harshness.;Flannery O'Connor;experience
17331;Life is like playing a violin solo in public and learning the instrument as one goes on.;Samuel Butler;experience
17332;Experience without theory is blind, but theory without experience is mere intellectual play.;Immanuel Kant;experience
17333;Good judgment comes from experience, and experience comes from bad judgment.;Rita Mae Brown;experience
17334;Experience is the child of thought, and thought is the child of action.;Benjamin Disraeli;experience
17335;Deep experience is never peaceful.;Henry James;experience
17336;Experience is a good school. But the fees are high.;Heinrich Heine;experience
17337;All experience is an arch wherethrough gleams that untravelled world whose margin fades for ever and for ever when I move.;Alfred Lord Tennyson;experience
17338;Skill is the unified force of experience, intellect and passion in their operation.;John Ruskin;experience
17339;All that I know I learned after I was thirty.;Georges Clemenceau;experience
17340;Every moment is an experience.;Jake Roberts;experience
17341;Good judgment comes from experience and experience comes from bad judgment.;Fred Brooks;experience
17342;There's a beauty to wisdom and experience that cannot be faked. It's impossible to be mature without having lived.;Amy Grant;experience
17343;There are many truths of which the full meaning cannot be realized until personal experience has brought it home.;John Stuart Mill;experience
17344;What one has not experienced, one will never understand in print.;Isadora Duncan;experience
17345;The sky is the limit. You never have the same experience twice.;Frank McCourt;experience
17346;The experience of God, or in any case the possibility of experiencing God, is innate.;Alice Walker;experience
17347;The value of experience is not in seeing much, but in seeing wisely.;William Osler;experience
17348;We are each responsible for all of our experiences.;Louise L. Hay;experience
17349;There is nothing so easy to learn as experience and nothing so hard to apply.;Josh Billings;experience
17350;My path has not been determined. I shall have more experiences and pass many more milestones.;Agnetha Faltskog;experience
17351;My experiences have taught me a lot and I'm happy with my learnings, if not with what I went through to learn.;Ally Sheedy;experience
17352;An optimist is a guy that has never had much experience.;Don Marquis;experience
17353;Real love is a permanently self-enlarging experience.;M. Scott Peck;experience
17354;Experience has taught me, when I am shaving of a morning, to keep watch over my thoughts, because, if a line of poetry strays into my memory, my skin bristles so that the razor ceases to act.;A. E. Housman;experience
17355;Your experiences will be yours alone. But truth and best friendship will rarely if ever disappoint you.;Anne Lamott;experience
17356;Experience is the only prophecy of wise men.;Alphonse de Lamartine;experience
17357;Experience is a great teacher.;John Legend;experience
17358;Experience comprises illusions lost, rather than wisdom gained.;Joseph Roux;experience
17359;All experience is an arch, to build upon.;Henry Adams;experience
17360;Experiences are savings which a miser puts aside. Wisdom is an inheritance which a wastrel cannot exhaust.;Karl Kraus;experience
17361;Few people even scratch the surface, much less exhaust the contemplation of their own experience.;Randolph Bourne;experience
17362;The main thing experience has taught me is that one has to sort of hone their relationship to time, you know.;John Frusciante;experience
17363;I think we are a product of all our experiences.;Sanford I. Weill;experience
17364;Information's pretty thin stuff unless mixed with experience.;Clarence Day;experience
17365;Most of the images of reality on which we base our actions are really based on vicarious experience.;Albert Bandura;experience
17366;Everything is discursive opinion instead of direct experience.;A. R. Ammons;experience
17367;Nothing which has entered into our experience is ever lost.;William Ellery Channing;experience
17368;Color is an intense experience on its own.;Jim Hodges;experience
17369;Judgment comes from experience - and experience comes from bad judgment.;Walter Wriston;experience
17370;Not the fruit of experience, but experience itself, is the end.;Walter Pater;experience
17371;Experience is not what happens to you it's what you do with what happens to you.;Aldous Huxley;experience
17372;By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest Second, by imitation, which is easiest and third by experience, which is the bitterest.;Confucius;experience
17373;One thorn of experience is worth a whole wilderness of warning.;James Russell Lowell;experience
17374;We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face... we must do that which we think we cannot.;Eleanor Roosevelt;experience
17375;You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along."
Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. Only through experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired, and success achieved.
Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.
The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science.
Experience hath shewn, that even under the best forms of government those entrusted with power have, in time, and by slow operations, perverted it into tyranny.
Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace, and gratitude.
It was the experience of mystery - even if mixed with fear - that engendered religion.
Experience demands that man is the only animal which devours his own kind, for I can apply no milder term to the general prey of the rich on the poor.
Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.
The more connections you and your lover make, not just between your bodies, but between your minds, your hearts, and your souls, the more you will strengthen the fabric of your relationship, and the more real moments you will experience together.
I believe that anyone can conquer fear by doing the things he fears to do, provided he keeps doing them until he gets a record of successful experience behind him.
I don't believe people are looking for the meaning of life as much as they are looking for the experience of being alive.
Like success, failure is many things to many people. With Positive Mental Attitude, failure is a learning experience, a rung on the ladder, a plateau at which to get your thoughts in order and prepare to try again.
If money is your hope for independence you will never have it. The only real security that a man will have in this world is a reserve of knowledge, experience, and ability.
Beliefs have the power to create and the power to destroy. Human beings have the awesome ability to take any experience of their lives and create a meaning that disempowers them or one that can literally save their lives.
The marvelous richness of human experience would lose something of rewarding joy if there were no limitations to overcome. The hilltop hour would not be half so wonderful if there were no dark valleys to traverse.
Many people know so little about what is beyond their short range of experience. They look within themselves - and find nothing! Therefore they conclude that there is nothing outside themselves either.
Never, never and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will again experience the oppression of one by another.
I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad and to travel for it too!
Be brave. Take risks. Nothing can substitute experience.
If history repeats itself, and the unexpected always happens, how incapable must Man be of learning from experience.
Experience teaches us that it is much easier to prevent an enemy from posting themselves than it is to dislodge them after they have got possession.
My experience has been that work is almost the best way to pull oneself out of the depths.
Unwearied ceaseless effort is the price that must be paid for turning faith into a rich infallible experience.
Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad judgment.
I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge. That myth is more potent than history. That dreams are more powerful than facts. That hope always triumphs over experience. That laughter is the only cure for grief. And I believe that love is stronger than death.
I am a woman in process. I'm just trying like everybody else. I try to take every conflict, every experience, and learn from it. Life is never dull.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other.
Fame will go by and, so long, I've had you, fame. If it goes by, I've always known it was fickle. So at least it's something I experience, but that's not where I live.
We choose our joys and sorrows long before we experience them.
There are three methods to gaining wisdom. The first is reflection, which is the highest. The second is limitation, which is the easiest. The third is experience, which is the bitterest.
I probably hold the distinction of being one movie star who, by all laws of logic, should never have made it. At each stage of my career, I lacked the experience.
Sex without love is a meaningless experience, but as far as meaningless experiences go its pretty damn good.
A lot of people in our industry haven't had very diverse experiences. So they don't have enough dots to connect, and they end up with very linear solutions without a broad perspective on the problem. The broader one's understanding of the human experience, the better design we will have.
It is a common experience that a problem difficult at night is resolved in the morning after the committee of sleep has worked on it.
The wise are instructed by reason, average minds by experience, the stupid by necessity and the brute by instinct.
Experience, as a desire for experience, does not come off. We must not study ourselves while having an experience.
To use the same words is not a sufficient guarantee of understanding one must use the same words for the same genus of inward experience ultimately one must have one's experiences in common.
Experience has shown, and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger portion of the truth arises from the seemingly irrelevant.
Wealth is the ability to fully experience life.
What each must seek in his life never was on land or sea. It is something out of his own unique potentiality for experience, something that never has been and never could have been experienced by anyone else.
I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of experience.
Genius is the ability to renew one's emotions in daily experience.
Only those who have learned the power of sincere and selfless contribution experience life's deepest joy: true fulfillment.
We should not look back unless it is to derive useful lessons from past errors, and for the purpose of profiting by dearly bought experience.
Take time to gather up the past so that you will be able to draw from your experience and invest them in the future.
Experience taught me a few things. One is to listen to your gut, no matter how good something sounds on paper. The second is that you're generally better off sticking with what you know. And the third is that sometimes your best investments are the ones you don't make.
We learn from experience that men never learn anything from experience.
I don't have to have faith, I have experience.
Men are wise in proportion, not to their experience, but to their capacity for experience.
There can be no greater error than to expect, or calculate, upon real favors from nation to nation. It is an illusion which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.
A failure is a man who has blundered, but is not able to cash in the experience.
And so you touch this limit, something happens and you suddenly can go a little bit further. With your mind power, your determination, your instinct, and the experience as well, you can fly very high.
Once we believe in ourselves, we can risk curiosity, wonder, spontaneous delight, or any experience that reveals the human spirit.
Is there anyone so wise as to learn by the experience of others?
Our DNA is as a consumer company - for that individual customer who's voting thumbs up or thumbs down. That's who we think about. And we think that our job is to take responsibility for the complete user experience. And if it's not up to par, it's our fault, plain and simply.
Sleep - the most beautiful experience in life - except drink.
The joy of life consists in the exercise of one's energies, continual growth, constant change, the enjoyment of every new experience. To stop means simply to die. The eternal mistake of mankind is to set up an attainable ideal.
I have found little that is 'good' about human beings on the whole. In my experience most of them are trash, no matter whether they publicly subscribe to this or that ethical doctrine or to none at all. That is something that you cannot say aloud, or perhaps even think.
I don't think I've ever worked so hard on something, but working on Macintosh was the neatest experience of my life. Almost everyone who worked on it will say that. None of us wanted to release it at the end. It was as though we knew that once it was out of our hands, it wouldn't be ours anymore.
Take control of your consistent emotions and begin to consciously and deliberately reshape your daily experience of life.
Enlightened leadership is spiritual if we understand spirituality not as some kind of religious dogma or ideology but as the domain of awareness where we experience values like truth, goodness, beauty, love and compassion, and also intuition, creativity, insight and focused attention.
One of the greatest moments in anybody's developing experience is when he no longer tries to hide from himself but determines to get acquainted with himself as he really is.
You learn from a conglomeration of the incredible past - whatever experience gotten in any way whatsoever.
Gratitude bestows reverence, allowing us to encounter everyday epiphanies, those transcendent moments of awe that change forever how we experience life and the world.
The only real security that a man can have in this world is a reserve of knowledge, experience and ability.
You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you'd experience. You have rejection and you have learn how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it.
I'd rather have a lot of talent and a little experience than a lot of experience and a little talent.
All growth is a leap in the dark, a spontaneous unpremeditated act without benefit of experience.
The best scientist is open to experience and begins with romance - the idea that anything is possible.
DOS is ugly and interferes with users' experience.
Freedom. Freedom of religion. Freedom to speak their mind. Freedom to build a life. And yes, freedom to build a business. With their own hands. This is the essence of the American experience.
Lying in bed would be an altogether perfect and supreme experience if only one had a colored pencil long enough to draw on the ceiling.
Death is not an event in life: we do not live to experience death. If we take eternity to mean not infinite temporal duration but timelessness, then eternal life belongs to those who live in the present.
It's an interesting combination: Having a great fear of being alone, and having a desperate need for solitude and the solitary experience. That's always been a tug of war for me.
It's good to experience Hollywood in short bursts, I guess. Little snippets. I don't think I can handle being here all the time, it's pretty nutty.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers. It may not be difficult to store up in the mind a vast quantity of facts within a comparatively short time, but the ability to form judgments requires the severe discipline of hard work and the tempering heat of experience and maturity.
The historical experience of socialist countries has sadly demonstrated that collectivism does not do away with alienation but rather increases it, adding to it a lack of basic necessities and economic inefficiency.
Love is an emotion that is based on an opinion of women that is impossible for those who have had any experience with them.
Women always excel men in that sort of wisdom which comes from experience. To be a woman is in itself a terrible experience.
Ages of experience have taught humanity that the commitment of a husband and wife to love and to serve one another promotes the welfare of children and the stability of society.
Surely all art is the result of one's having been in danger, of having gone through an experience all the way to the end, where no one can go any further.
Every experience is a paradox in that it means to be absolute, and yet is relative in that it somehow always goes beyond itself and yet never escapes itself.
If you wish to succeed in life, make perseverance your bosom friend, experience your wise counselor, caution your elder brother, and hope your guardian genius.
Although nature commences with reason and ends in experience it is necessary for us to do the opposite, that is to commence with experience and from this to proceed to investigate the reason.
I know it's an experience that I need to have if God's putting me through it.
In the business world, everyone is paid in two coins: cash and experience. Take the experience first the cash will come later.
If merely 'feeling good' could decide, drunkenness would be the supremely valid human experience.
You are not a human being in search of a spiritual experience. You are a spiritual being immersed in a human experience.
How is it possible that a being with such sensitive jewels as the eyes, such enchanted musical instruments as the ears, and such fabulous arabesque of nerves as the brain can experience itself anything less than a god.
If you want to run, run a mile. If you want to experience a different life, run a marathon.
Each morning when I awake, I experience again a supreme pleasure - that of being Salvador Dali.
Travel, in the younger sort, is a part of education in the elder, a part of experience.
The soul should always stand ajar, ready to welcome the ecstatic experience.
"Pure experience' is the name I gave to the immediate flux of life which furnishes the material to our later reflection with its conceptual categories.;William James;experience
17470;I've always enjoyed traveling and having experience with different cultures and different people. But it's also a wonderful thing to be able to benefit and enable research, not only in our country but around the world.;Laurel Clark;experience
17471;Experience praises the most happy the one who made the most people happy.;Karl Marx;experience
17472;From their experience or from the recorded experience of others (history), men learn only what their passions and their metaphysical prejudices allow them to learn.;Aldous Huxley;experience
17473;I think it's been hard for people to understand how Islam can be a good religion, and yet the Islamists are evil. Those of us who have had experience with Islam understand this, just as we understand the difference between snake handlers and people going to church on Sunday morning.;P. J. O'Rourke;experience
17474;Going out and playing football or baseball with the boys, when I was a tomboy, was a great way to learn about winning and losing, and most girls didn't have that experience.;Hillary Clinton;experience
17475;When people speak to you about a preventive war, you tell them to go and fight it. After my experience, I have come to hate war.;Dwight D. Eisenhower;experience
17476;We deem those happy who from the experience of life have learnt to bear its ills without being overcome by them.;Carl Jung;experience
17477;The essence of life is finding something you really love and then making the daily experience worthwhile.;Denis Waitley;experience
17478;Taste every fruit of every tree in the garden at least once. It is an insult to creation not to experience it fully. Temperance is wickedness.;Stephen Fry;experience
17479;In a person who is open to experience each stimulus is freely relayed through the nervous system, without being distorted by any process of defensiveness.;Carl Rogers;experience
17480;Experience is what you have after you've forgotten her name.;Milton Berle;experience
17481;Mistakes are painful when they happen, but years later a collection of mistakes is what is called experience.;Denis Waitley;experience
17482;I'm not a genius. I'm just a tremendous bundle of experience.;R. Buckminster Fuller;experience
17483;I know from personal experience how damaging it can be to live with bitterness and unforgiveness. I like to say it's like taking poison and hoping your enemy will die. And it really is that harmful to us to live this way.;Joyce Meyer;experience
17484;I experience a period of frightening clarity in those moments when nature is so beautiful. I am no longer sure of myself, and the paintings appear as in a dream.;Vincent Van Gogh;experience
17485;My own experience is use the tools that are out there. Use the digital world. But never lose sight of the need to reach out and talk to other people who don't share your view. Listen to them and see if you can find a way to compromise.;Colin Powell;experience
17486;My mind withdrew its thoughts from experience, extracting itself from the contradictory throng of sensuous images, that it might find out what that light was wherein it was bathed... And thus, with the flash of one hurried glance, it attained to the vision of That Which Is.;Saint Augustine;experience
17487;Screaming at children over their grades, especially to the point of the child's tears, is child abuse, pure and simple. It's not funny and it's not good parenting. It is a crushing, scarring, disastrous experience for the child. It isn't the least bit funny.;Ben Stein;experience
17488;Experience does not err. Only your judgments err by expecting from her what is not in her power.;Leonardo da Vinci;experience
17489;Follow that will and that way which experience confirms to be your own.;Carl Jung;experience
17490;Every secret of a writer's soul, every experience of his life, every quality of his mind is written large in his works.;Virginia Woolf;experience
17491;The act of birth is the first experience of anxiety, and thus the source and prototype of the affect of anxiety.;Sigmund Freud;experience
17492;In the revolt against idealism, the ambiguities of the word experience have been perceived, with the result that realists have more and more avoided the word.;Bertrand Russell;experience
17493;The deepest experience of the creator is feminine, for it is experience of receiving and bearing.;Rainer Maria Rilke;experience
17494;Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce our errors of youth for those of age.;Ambrose Bierce;experience
17495;Life has a certain flavor for those who have fought and risked all that the sheltered and protected can never experience.;John Stuart Mill;experience
17496;The only thing we have learnt from experience is that we learn nothing from experience.;Chinua Achebe;experience
17497;I like to think of my behavior in the sixties as a 'learning experience.' Then again, I like to think of anything stupid I've done as a 'learning experience.' It makes me feel less stupid.;P. J. O'Rourke;experience
17498;Just as the wave cannot exist for itself, but is ever a part of the heaving surface of the ocean, so must I never live my life for itself, but always in the experience which is going on around me.;Albert Schweitzer;experience
17499;Enthusiasm - a distemper of youth, curable by small doses of repentance in connection with outward applications of experience.;Ambrose Bierce;experience
17500;The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages are perpetuated by quotations.;Benjamin Disraeli;experience
17501;Experience is a hard teacher because she gives the test first, the lesson afterward.;Vernon Law;experience
17502;Two things control men's nature, instinct and experience.;Blaise Pascal;experience
17503;Experience has shown how deeply the seeds of war are planted by economic rivalry and social injustice.;Harry S. Truman;experience
17504;In wisdom gathered over time I have found that every experience is a form of exploration.;Ansel Adams;experience
17505;Experience which was once claimed by the aged is now claimed exclusively by the young.;Gilbert K. Chesterton;experience
17506;Never become so much of an expert that you stop gaining expertise. View life as a continuous learning experience.;Denis Waitley;experience
17507;We come altogether fresh and raw into the several stages of life, and often find ourselves without experience, despite our years.;Francois de La Rochefoucauld;experience
17508;If you want to know the taste of a pear, you must change the pear by eating it yourself. If you want to know the theory and methods of revolution, you must take part in revolution. All genuine knowledge originates in direct experience.;Mao Zedong;experience
17509;I didn't fully realize it at the time, but the goal of my life was profoundly molded by this experience - to help produce, in the next generation, more Mother Teresas and less Hitlers.;Elisabeth Kubler-Ross;experience
17510;I've learned from experience that the greater part of our happiness or misery depends on our dispositions and not on our circumstances.;Martha Washington;experience
17511;I just go where my heart tells me, where my gut tells me to go, where I'm enjoying my life the most, where I feel like I can have the most success. I've truly enjoyed my experience in NASCAR, to the point that I want to do it full time.;Danica Patrick;experience
17512;The great awareness comes slowly, piece by piece. The path of spiritual growth is a path of lifelong learning. The experience of spiritual power is basically a joyful one.;M. Scott Peck;experience
17513;I've learned from experience that if you work harder at it, and apply more energy and time to it, and more consistency, you get a better result. It comes from the work.;Louis C. K.;experience
17514;It is impossible to experience one's death objectively and still carry a tune.;Woody Allen;experience
17515;And to get real work experience, you need a job, and most jobs will require you to have had either real work experience or a graduate degree.;Donald Norman;experience
17516;When you make a commitment to a relationship, you invest your attention and energy in it more profoundly because you now experience ownership of that relationship.;Barbara de Angelis;experience
17517;What is the price of experience? Do men buy it for a song? Or wisdom for a dance in the street? No, it is bought with the price of all the man hath, his house, his wife, his children.;William Blake;experience
17518;In times of rapid change, experience could be your worst enemy.;J. Paul Getty;experience
17519;A few years' experience will convince us that those things which at the time they happened we regarded as our greatest misfortunes have proved our greatest blessings.;George Mason;experience
17520;In order to experience everyday spirituality, we need to remember that we are spiritual beings spending some time in a human body.;Barbara de Angelis;experience
17521;But human experience is usually paradoxical, that means incongruous with the phrases of current talk or even current philosophy.;George Eliot;experience
17522;Is it not rather what we expect in men, that they should have numerous strands of experience lying side by side and never compare them with each other?;George Eliot;experience
17523;In spite of his practical ability, some of his experience had petrified into maxims and quotations.;George Eliot;experience
17524;I must take issue with the term 'a mere child,' for it has been my invariable experience that the company of a mere child is infinitely preferable to that of a mere adult.;Fran Lebowitz;experience
17525;Most people go through life dreading they'll have a traumatic experience. Freaks were born with their trauma. They've already passed their test in life. They're aristocrats.;Diane Arbus;experience
17526;Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by study and studies themselves do give forth directions too much at large, except they be bounded in by experience.;Francis Bacon;experience
17527;No man's knowledge here can go beyond his experience.;John Locke;experience
17528;To reach something good it is very useful to have gone astray, and thus acquire experience.;Saint Teresa of Avila;experience
17529;A conception not reducible to the small change of daily experience is like a currency not exchangeable for articles of consumption it is not a symbol, but a fraud.;George Santayana;experience
17530;The reward of suffering is experience.;Harry S. Truman;experience
17531;I deepen my experience of God through prayer, meditation, and forgiveness.;Marianne Williamson;experience
17532;I haven't been as wild with my money as somebody like me might have been. I've been very safe, very conservative with investments. I don't blow money. I don't have a ton of houses. I know things can go away. I've already had that experience.;Jim Carrey;experience
17533;Let us be about setting high standards for life, love, creativity, and wisdom. If our expectations in these areas are low, we are not likely to experience wellness. Setting high standards makes every day and every decade worth looking forward to.;Greg Anderson;experience
17534;The physical world, including our bodies, is a response of the observer. We create our bodies as we create the experience of our world.;Deepak Chopra;experience
17535;Difficult times always create opportunities for you to experience more love in your life.;Barbara de Angelis;experience
17536;I think everyone should experience defeat at least once during their career. You learn a lot from it.;Lou Holtz;experience
17537;Acting is a question of absorbing other people's personalities and adding some of your own experience.;Jean-Paul Sartre;experience
17538;It is important to expect nothing, to take every experience, including the negative ones, as merely steps on the path, and to proceed.;Ram Dass;experience
17539;The only relevant test of the validity of a hypothesis is comparison of prediction with experience.;Milton Friedman;experience
17540;Studies perfect nature and are perfected still by experience.;Francis Bacon;experience
17541;All theory is against freedom of the will all experience for it.;Samuel Johnson;experience
17542;The great difficulty in education is to get experience out of ideas.;George Santayana;experience
17543;It is beyond a doubt that all our knowledge that begins with experience.;Immanuel Kant;experience
17544;I firmly believe that all human beings have access to extraordinary energies and powers. Judging from accounts of mystical experience, heightened creativity, or exceptional performance by athletes and artists, we harbor a greater life than we know.;Jean Houston;experience
17545;But perhaps the rest of us could have separate classes in science appreciation, the wonder of science, scientific ways of thinking, and the history of scientific ideas, rather than laboratory experience.;Richard Dawkins;experience
17546;The greatest gift is the passion for reading. It is cheap, it consoles, it distracts, it excites, it gives you knowledge of the world and experience of a wide kind. It is a moral illumination.;Moses Hadas;experience
17547;The questions which one asks oneself begin, at least, to illuminate the world, and become one's key to the experience of others.;James A. Baldwin;experience
17548;Suffering is but another name for the teaching of experience, which is the parent of instruction and the schoolmaster of life.;Horace;experience
17549;Any experience can be transformed into something of value.;Vash Young;experience
17550;As human beings, we are vulnerable to confusing the unprecedented with the improbable. In our everyday experience, if something has never happened before, we are generally safe in assuming it is not going to happen in the future, but the exceptions can kill you and climate change is one of those exceptions.;Al Gore;experience
17551;To have God speak to the heart is a majestic experience, an experience that people may miss if they monopolize the conversation and never pause to hear God's responses.;Charles Stanley;experience
17552;I wish I could give you a lot of advice, based on my experience of winning political debates. But I don't have that experience. My only experience is at losing them.;Richard M. Nixon;experience
17553;A leader who confines his role to his people's experience dooms himself to stagnation a leader who outstrips his people's experience runs the risk of not being understood.;Henry A. Kissinger;experience
17554;Reason, observation, and experience the holy trinity of science.;Robert Green Ingersoll;experience
17555;Everybody experiences far more than he understands. Yet it is experience, rather than understanding, that influences behavior.;Marshall McLuhan;experience
17556;The statesman's duty is to bridge the gap between his nation's experience and his vision.;Henry A. Kissinger;experience
17557;Tactics, fitness, stroke ability, adaptability, experience, and sportsmanship are all necessary for winning.;Fred Perry;experience
17558;I gave my beauty and my youth to men. I am going to give my wisdom and experience to animals.;Brigitte Bardot;experience
17559;Recommend virtue to your children it alone, not money, can make them happy. I speak from experience.;Ludwig van Beethoven;experience
17560;The only faith that wears well and holds its color in all weathers is that which is woven of conviction and set with the sharp mordant of experience.;James Russell Lowell;experience
17561;I understand now that the vulnerability I've always felt is the greatest strength a person can have. You can't experience life without feeling life. What I've learned is that being vulnerable to somebody you love is not a weakness, it's a strength.;Elisabeth Shue;experience
17562;When we learn from experience, the scars of sin can lead us to restoration and a renewed intimacy with God.;Charles Stanley;experience
17563;The belief that all genuine education comes about through experience does not mean that all experiences are genuinely or equally educative.;John Dewey;experience
17564;The trouble with this country is that there are too many politicians who believe, with a conviction based on experience, that you can fool all of the people all of the time.;Franklin P. Adams;experience
17565;Whatever you dwell on in the conscious grows in your experience.;Brian Tracy;experience
17566;I am so used to seeing the sort of play which deals with one man and two women. They do not leave me with the feeling I have made a full theatrical meal they do not give me the experience of the multiplicity of life.;E. M. Forster;experience
17567;The historian must have some conception of how men who are not historians behave. Otherwise he will move in a world of the dead. He can only gain that conception through personal experience, and he can only use his personal experiences when he is a genius.;E. M. Forster;experience
17568;Happiness isn't something you experience it's something you remember.;Oscar Levant;experience
17569;No experience is a cause of success or failure. We do not suffer from the shock of our experiences, so-called trauma - but we make out of them just what suits our purposes.;Alfred Adler;experience
17570;You cannot, in human experience, rush into the light. You have to go through the twilight into the broadening day before the noon comes and the full sun is upon the landscape.;Woodrow Wilson;experience
17571;I don't claim to be knowledgeable about theology. Most of my knowledge comes out of my experience and the lessons in the Bible. Every Sunday I'm home I teach 45 minutes and we boiled them down to one page for the new book, 'Through the Year with Jimmy Carter."
Anybody who has gone through a life-changing experience will tell you there is a different understanding of what is real and what is important, and when you are going through different moments, you can reflect and go, 'I have been through worse.'
The educator must believe in the potential power of his pupil, and he must employ all his art in seeking to bring his pupil to experience this power.
My experience of the world is that things left to themselves don't get right.
But if somebody dies, if something happens to you, there is a normal process of depression, it is part of being human, and some people view it as a learning experience etc.
Optimism with some experience behind it is much more energizing than plain old experience with a certain degree of cynicism.
But my experience is that people who have been through painful, difficult times are filled with compassion.
Refusal to believe until proof is given is a rational position denial of all outside of our own limited experience is absurd.
There are worlds of experience beyond the world of the aggressive man, beyond history, and beyond science. The moods and qualities of nature and the revelations of great art are equally difficult to define we can grasp them only in the depths of our perceptive spirit.
All partisan movements add to the fullness of our understanding of society as a whole. They never detract or, in any case, one must not allow them to do so. Experience adds to experience.
Many of the insights of the saint stem from their experience as sinners.
As a medical doctor, it is my duty to evaluate the situation with as much data as I can gather and as much expertise as I have and as much experience as I have to determine whether or not the wish of the patient is medically justified.
Good judgement comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgement.
Experience seems to most of us to lead to conclusions, but empiricism has sworn never to draw them.
The word experience is like a shrapnel shell, and bursts into a thousand meanings.
Parents lend children their experience and a vicarious memory children endow their parents with a vicarious immortality.
Because our entire universe is made up of consciousness, we never really experience the universe directly we just experience our consciousness of the universe, our perception of it, so right, our only universe is perception.
Masterpieces are not single and solitary births they are the outcome of many years of thinking in common, of thinking by the body of the people, so that the experience of the mass is behind the single voice.
It takes someone with a vision of the possibilities to attain new levels of experience. Someone with the courage to live his dreams.
Memory is not an instrument for exploring the past but its theatre. It is the medium of past experience, as the ground is the medium in which dead cities lie interred.
Throughout my whole life, as a performer, I've never played with a band. I've always played alone, so I was never required to stay in rhythm or anything. So it was a real different experience for me to start playing with a band. There were so many basic things for me to learn.
Experience is never limited, and it is never complete it is an immense sensibility, a kind of huge spider-web of the finest silken threads suspended in the chamber of consciousness, and catching every air-borne particle in its tissue.
All the suffering and joy we experience depend on conditions.
Simplicity is the most difficult thing to secure in this world it is the last limit of experience and the last effort of genius.
Historically, musicians know what it is like to be outside the norm - walking the high wire without a safety net. Our experience is not so different from those who march to the beat of different drummers.
But although all our knowledge begins with experience, it does not follow that it arises from experience.
It is possible to experience an awakening in this life through realising just how precious each moment, each mental process, and each breath truly is.
What an artist is trying to do for people is bring them closer to something, because of course art is about sharing. You wouldn't be an artist unless you wanted to share an experience, a thought.
You lose your individuality a huge amount when you have no money, and I certainly had that experience.
At times I experience hardship in trying to find the proper point of balance between traditional things and my own personality.
Wisdom and penetration are the fruit of experience, not the lessons of retirement and leisure. Great necessities call out great virtues.
That peace which is within us, we must experience it. And if we are searching for peace outside we will never find the peace within.
Experience is the best teacher of all. And for that, there are no guarantees that one will become an artist. Only the journey matters.
I'm afraid, based on my own experience, that fascism will come to America in the name of national security.
The new spirituality is that it will produce an experience in human encounters in which we become a living demonstration of the basic spiritual teaching 'We are all one.'
There are some hurts that we experience that can be forgiven but we won't forget them.
No place epitomizes the American experience and the American spirit more than New York City.
To 'choose' dogma and faith over doubt and experience is to throw out the ripening vintage and to reach greedily for the Kool-Aid.
Most men are very attached to the idea of being male, and usually experience a lot of fear and insecurity around the idea of being a man. Most women are very identified with their gender, and also experience a tremendous amount of fear and insecurity.
You don't know what unconditional love is. You may say you do, but if you don't have a child, you don't know what that is. But when you experience it, it is the most fulfilling ever.
I maybe had a first love and had my heart broken, but reflecting on it, I don't think that was love. I think as I'm getting older and having more in-depth relationships, maybe I'll experience it. At the moment, I don't know, exactly, if I've been in love.
The traveler was active he went strenuously in search of people, of adventure, of experience. The tourist is passive he expects interesting things to happen to him. He goes 'sight-seeing.'
Yes, I've been trepanned. That's quite an interesting experience, especially for my brain surgeon, who saw my thoughts flying around in my brain.
God is only a great imaginative experience.
Myth is an attempt to narrate a whole human experience, of which the purpose is too deep, going too deep in the blood and soul, for mental explanation or description.
No man was ever so completely skilled in the conduct of life, as not to receive new information from age and experience.
There is no more lively sensation than that of pain its impressions are certain and dependable, they never deceive as may those of the pleasure women perpetually feign and almost never experience.
Music is your own experience, your own thoughts, your wisdom. If you don't live it, it won't come out of your horn. They teach you there's a boundary line to music. But, man, there's no boundary line to art.
The dictum that truth always triumphs over persecution is one of the pleasant falsehoods which men repeat after one another till they pass into commonplaces, but which all experience refutes.
If you want plenty of experience in dealing with difficult people, then have kids.
I had some experience in dealing with people who have mental illness and depression, but I didn't see the signs in myself. I couldn't ask for help because I didn't know I needed help.
I write out of my intellectual experience.
It would be my guess that Madonna is not a very happy woman. From my own experience, having gone through persona changes like that, that kind of clawing need to be the center of attention is not a pleasant place to be.
The great living experience for every man is his adventure into the woman. The man embraces in the woman all that is not himself, and from that one resultant, from that embrace, comes every new action.
High school is such a shared experience in North American culture.
Imagine a judicial nominee said 'my experience as a white man makes me better than a Latina woman.' Wouldn't they have to withdraw? New racism is no better than old racism.
The experience of life consists of the experience which the spirit has of itself in matter and as matter, in mind and as mind, in emotion, as emotion, etc.
But it's a journey and the sad thing is you only learn from experience, so as much as someone can tell you things, you have to go out there and make your own mistakes in order to learn.
Of two pleasures, if there be one which all or almost all who have experience of both give a decided preference, irrespective of any feeling of moral obligation to prefer it, that is the more desirable pleasure.
My friends, whoever has had experience of evils knows how whenever a flood of ills comes upon mortals, a man fears everything but whenever a divine force cheers on our voyage, then we believe that the same fate will always blow fair.
I think I'm basically the same guy I always was. Maybe I've learned, through experience, to rein in some of the anger and temper they say redheads normally have.
Such happiness as life is capable of comes from the full participation of all our powers in the endeavor to wrest from each changing situations of experience its own full and unique meaning.
War is delightful to those who have had no experience of it.
I never intended for the Monster Ball to be a religious experience, it just became one.
I'm not one aspect of the human experience - none of us is.
Common sense is the measure of the possible it is composed of experience and prevision it is calculation applied to life.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
Experience teaches us to be most on our guard to protect liberty when the government's purposes are beneficent.
The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages is preserved into perpetuity by a nation's proverbs, fables, folk sayings and quotations.
Talking with you is sort of the conversational equivalent of an out of body experience.
If you do build a great experience, customers tell each other about that. Word of mouth is very powerful.
If I could sell 500 million records every time, it would be great. But I've also had the luxury experience of having it when I was a teenager, in a very kind of model version of it.
A little reflection will show us that every belief, even the simplest and most fundamental, goes beyond experience when regarded as a guide to our actions.
This has been a learning experience for me. I also thought that privacy was something we were granted in the Constitution. I have learned from this when in fact the word privacy does not appear in the Constitution.
I sought my father in the world of the black musician, because it contained wisdom, experience, sadness and loneliness. I was not ever interested in the music of boys. From my youngest years, I was interested in the music of men.
The trouble with learning from experience is that you never graduate.
The experience of democracy is like the experience of life itself-always changing, infinite in its variety, sometimes turbulent and all the more valuable for having been tested by adversity.
I got to experience soccer at the highest level at a young age I decided I wanted to be part of that for as long as possible.
There is science, logic, reason there is thought verified by experience. And then there is California.
The key to education is the experience of beauty.
The greatest gift is a passion for reading. It is cheap, it consoles, it distracts, it excites, it gives you knowledge of the world and experience of a wide kind. It is a moral illumination.
Experience is like a comb that life gives you when you are bald.
Sure, I suffered a lot. But it's not like the end of the world and it's not who I am. I lead quite a pleasant life and I'm able to divorce a perceived reality from my actual experience of life.
I've never felt like I was in the cookie business. I've always been in a feel good feeling business. My job is to sell joy. My job is to sell happiness. My job is to sell an experience.
Not to transmit an experience is to betray it.
Normally, I love to go to the movies and when I see a character portrayed by different actors at different ages, it kind of pops a little bit for me. It brings me out of the movie experience. Now we have the technology to cure that.
I just hope that theaters remain. I think there's something very wonderful about getting into a dark room with a bunch of people. There's something cool about that. Brings us all together in one room where we can experience all those emotions.
Piano playing is a dying art. I love the fact that I can be one guy with one instrument evoking an emotional and musical experience.
Life is the only real counselor wisdom unfiltered through personal experience does not become a part of the moral tissue.
We went with the St. Lawrence Experience, which is run by Joe Babbitt, who is a close friend now. We went out there for 10 days and we had the best week of our lives, and we've been going back since. We've been back three times now.
Working with big actors and realising that they were just normal people who've got an incredible talent was just a great experience.
Creativity comes from looking for the unexpected and stepping outside your own experience.
It has been my experience that if we make the effort to listen to people when we meet them, and work to get to know them a little, it is then easy to find something likeable in practically anyone.
The great book for you is the book that has the most to say to you at the moment when you are reading. I do not mean the book that is most instructive, but the book that feeds your spirit. And that depends on your age, your experience, your psychological and spiritual need.
We are different, in essence, from other men. If you want to win something, run 100 meters. If you want to experience something, run a marathon.
Parents of recovered children, and I've met hundreds, all share the same experience of doubters and deniers telling us our child must have never even had autism or that the recovery was simply nature's course. We all know better, and frankly we're too busy helping other parents to really care.
Literature transmits incontrovertible condensed experience... from generation to generation. In this way literature becomes the living memory of a nation.
I don't care how smart a kid you are. The only way you learn what's not right is from experience.
I find, by experience, that the mind and the body are more than married, for they are most intimately united and when one suffers, the other sympathizes.
Motherhood has completely changed me. It's just about like the most completely humbling experience that I've ever had. I think that it puts you in your place because it really forces you to address the issues that you claim to believe in and if you can't stand up to those principles when you're raising a child, forget it.
There should be a sympathy with freedom, a desire to give it scope, founded not upon visionary ideas, but upon the long experience of many generations within the shores of this happy isle, that in freedom you lay the firmest foundations both of loyalty and order.
Poets are the only people to whom love is not only a crucial, but an indispensable experience, which entitles them to mistake it for a universal one.
In George Bush you get experience, and with me you get - The Future!
In those days a concert was a personal experience. I wanted to be as close as possible to the audience, and of course big stadiums didn't enable you to do that. It wasn't my style.
Any film, or to me any creative endeavour, no matter who you're working with, is, in many cases, a wonderful experience.
Very often I've known people who wouldn't say a word to each other, but they'd go to see movies together and experience life that way.
Working with HBO was an opportunity to experience creative freedom and 'long-form development' that filmmakers didn't have a chance to do before the emergence of shows like 'The Sopranos.'
Women love working together. That's my experience anyway.
The amount of meetings I've been in - people would be shocked. But that's how you gain experience, how you can gain knowledge, being in meetings and participating. You learn and grow.
Surfing soothes me, it's always been a kind of Zen experience for me. The ocean is so magnificent, peaceful, and awesome. The rest of the world disappears for me when I'm on a wave.
We are increasingly likely to find ourselves in places with background music. No composers have thought to write for these modern spaces, which represent 30% of our musical experience.
Sometimes you recognize that there is a category of human experience that has not been identified but everyone knows about it. That is when I find a term to describe it.
But inner experience is only one source of human knowledge.
Our wisdom comes from our experience, and our experience comes from our foolishness.
We can not continue to allow this over reliance on government to replace the cornerstone institution that has made the American experience possible.
There are pros and cons of experience. A con is that you can't look at the business with a fresh pair of eyes and as objectively as if you were a new CEO. Fire yourself on a Friday night and come in on Monday morning as if a search firm put you there as a turn-around leader. Can you be objective and make the bold change?
It is very easy to make clear what you want a film to say, but I did not wish to engage in overt propaganda, even for the right cause. I wanted to create an experience through the films, something where people could have the freedom of their own response to them.
I would love to work in America. I wouldn't love to live there, but I'd love to experience working there.
I had one relative who passed away but fortunately none others. So my sort of experience of it is quite limited, thankfully.
I have such happy memories of performing in a choir and I don't think I'd have got where I am today without all that experience. So my advice to young singers is to either join your school or church's choir or find one in your local area. Choral music at any level teaches you so much about musicianship and blending your voice.
As the leader of twelve apostles, even Jesus had more executive experience than Obama.
Values are principles and ideas that bring meaning to the seemingly mundane experience of life. A meaningful life that ultimately brings happiness and pride requires you to respond to temptations as well as challenges with honor, dignity, and courage.
If we didn't want to upset anyone, we would make films about sewing, but even that could be dangerous. But I think finally, in a film, it is how the balance is and the feelings are. But I think there has to be those contrasts and strong things within a film for the total experience.
All I know is that history repeats itself and people are going to want to experience the world. But I know then they are going to have a better appreciation for what is here in Maine.
The simple act of saying 'thank you' is a demonstration of gratitude in response to an experience that was meaningful to a customer or citizen.
I was so emotional. Choked up. I could hardly talk all day. I'll be cleaning out my trailer and saying goodbye soon, realizing what a wonderful experience this has been.
Experience has taught me how important it is to just keep going, focusing on running fast and relaxed. Eventually it passes and the flow returns. It's part of racing.
People of art should never get married and have children, because it's a selfish experience.
If you will call your troubles experiences, and remember that every experience develops some latent force within you, you will grow vigorous and happy, however adverse your circumstances may seem to be.
You are about to have your first experience with a Greek lunch. I will kill you if you pretend to like it.
Before people complain of the obscurity of modern poetry, they should first examine their consciences and ask themselves with how many people and on how many occasions they have genuinely and profoundly shared some experience with another.
The character and history of each child may be a new and poetic experience to the parent, if he will let it.
I grew up like a neglected weed - ignorant of liberty, having no experience of it.
I would wish for any one of my colleagues to have the experience of working with Martin Scorsese once in their lifetime.
It's my experience that you really can't lose when you try the truth.
How do people relate to movies now, when they're on portable devices or streaming them? It's not as much about going to the movies. That experience has changed.
I had no expectations about fatherhood, really, but it's definitely a journey I'm glad to be taking. Number one, it's a great learning experience. When my mother told me it's a 24/7 job, she wasn't kidding.
Going to a party, for me, is as much a learning experience as, you know, sitting in a lecture.
In our society, daily experience teaches the individual to want and need a never-ending supply of new toys and drugs.
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
If someone is making a judgment when they don't have firsthand experience, it's intolerant. How can you make a judgment on something you don't know about?
What is sure is that technological change is accelerating in all directions and, like children playing in a fountain, consumers are reveling in the experience.
Corporate America cannot afford to remain silent or passive about the downward spiral we are undergoing. It cannot turn a blind eye to how difficult the experience of life is for so many of their customers.
Ultimately, it's possible that social media platforms will be designed as templates that the users themselves customize in terms of the best way to express their community and experience of life, and brands will have to simply follow suit.
How much do you as a consumer value a positive experience with a brand or its customer service department? How willing are you to share that with your friends? How inclined are you to let that person know that you're interaction with them was positive?
Never, for the sake of peace and quiet, deny your own experience or convictions.
I've learned through experience that life is never that bad. The secret is just paying attention to how you feel and not letting anyone else dictate what in your heart you know is right.
Ends and purposes, whether they exist as conscious or subconscious tendencies, form the wrap and woof of our conscious experience.
The immediacy of mystic experience simply means that we know God just as we know other objects. God is not a mathematical entity or a system of concepts mutually related to one another and having no reference to experience.
I go by instinct - I don't worry about experience.
In my experience lust only ever leads to misery. All that suspicion and jealousy and anguish it unleashes. I don't want those things in my life.
Every experience makes you a man.
I've been playing against older and stronger competition my whole life. It has made me a better tennis player and able to play against this kind of level despite their strength and experience.
It took me years to understand that words are often as important as experience, because words make experience last.
Observation more than books and experience more than persons, are the prime educators.
The more you are getting older, you lose a little something. Of course there is another advantage, because of your long experience you can use it.
Reasoning draws a conclusion, but does not make the conclusion certain, unless the mind discovers it by the path of experience.
Proverbs are short sentences drawn from long experience.
Both expectations and memories are more than mere images founded on previous experience.
We are volcanoes. When we women offer our experience as our truth, as human truth, all the maps change. There are new mountains.
That's not to say that women's priorities are better than men's. Rather, when women are empowered, when they can speak from the experience of their own lives, they often address different, previously neglected issues. And families and whole communities benefit.
Mississippi Mermaid was a very special experience because we only had the dialogues for the scenes we were shooting the night before.
I don't think I even knew how big we were at the time. It was mad. I gained a lot through East 17 and I'm grateful for being able to have that experience.
I loved the material when I first read it, and the experience of making the film was a great one. So when we came around to complete the trilogy, I just signed on board without even reading the scripts because the experience of the first film was so good.
I mean, if you didn't get it or if you didn't feel like you enjoyed it, sometimes that experience can change.
You may never learn the names of any of the people you talk to in a dog park, even after many, many hours spent there with them, and many hours of conversation. But if - knock on wood - anything should ever happen to your dog, these nameless non-strangers will rally, sympathize, offer to help, and hold your hand. I know this from experience.
Living in a rural setting exposes you to so many marvelous things - the natural world and the particular texture of small-town life, and the exhilarating experience of open space.
Parents, it seems, have an almost Olympian persistence when it comes to suggesting more secure and lucrative lines of work for their children who have the notion that writing is an actual profession. I say this from experience.
Buying a car used to be an experience so soul-scorching, so confidence-splattering, so existentially rattling that an entire car company was based on the promise that you wouldn't have to come in contact with it.
Sometimes I get so bold and I'm so confident about what I'm doing that I actually try to be more of a dork because it's a really liberating feeling to experience what it's like to not care.
We experience problem-solving sessions as war zones, we view competing ideas as enemies, and we use problems as weapons to blame and defeat opposition forces. No wonder we can't come up with real lasting solutions!
I think each movie-making process is a very exhausting and satisfying and fulfilling experience for me.
I'm not a romantic. In life I didn't have much experience with romance.
So when you do your family tree and Margaret Cho does hers, and... Wanda Sykes and John Legend... we're adding to the database that scholars can then draw from to generalize about the complexity of the American experience. And that's the contribution that family trees make to broader scholarship.
I can only speak from my own personal experience, being behind the camera and in front of it, but every magazine cover you see is completely airbrushed.
To most men experience is like the stern lights of a ship, which illuminate only the track it has passed.
As for the forces, electromagnetism and gravity we experience in everyday life. But the weak and strong forces are beyond our ordinary experience. So in physics, lots of the basic building blocks take 20th- or perhaps 21st-century equipment to explore.
Bad experience is a school that only fools keep going to.
No 27-year-old has the experience to run a company that does a quarter of a billion dollars a year in sales.
Breathe-in experience, breathe-out poetry.
Another way of judging the value of a prophet's religious experience, therefore, would be to examine the type of manhood that he has created, and the cultural world that has sprung out of the spirit of his message.
The possibility of a scientific treatment of history means a wider experience, a greater maturity of practical reason, and finally a fuller realization of certain basic ideas regarding the nature of life and time.
It's more fun to experience things when you don't know what's going to happen.
Can advertising foist an inferior product on the consumer? Bitter experience has taught me that it cannot. On those rare occasions when I have advertised products which consumer tests have found inferior to other products in the same field, the results have been disastrous.
In my experience, it is rarer to find a really happy person in a circle of millionaires than among vagabonds.
Sometimes when we weep in the movies we weep for ourselves or for a life unlived. Or we even go to the movies because we want to resist the emotion that's there in front of us. I think there is always a catharsis that I look for and that makes the movie experience worthwhile.
There are such beings as vampires, some of us have evidence that they exist. Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience, the teachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sane peoples.
If you sit in a position where decisions that you take would have a serious effect on people, you can't ignore a lot of experience around the world which says this drug has these negative effects.
I think any spiritual experience that's worthwhile is not about ego and it will humble you in some way. And also, a Zen monk once said to me, 'If you're not laughing, then you're not getting it.'
The position that I take partly as a result of living in Asia is where you stop living according to your expectations and you become available to experience things as they are.
Truly charismatic people, in my experience, don't come along very often.
The wonderful thing about acting is you move along with your decade. The older you get, the more interesting the parts you get to play and you bring more of your personal experience to the part.
Everyone will experience the consequences of his own acts. If his act are right, he'll get good consequences if they're not, he'll suffer for it.
Going to the theater is such a joyous experience. My dad would take my sister and me to plays when we were very young, like six or seven years old.
The soul is everlasting, and its learning experience is lifetime after lifetime.
When a child comes in, I believe that it's a 'multipersonhood,' and it knows it, its consciousness knows it, and it has a nuclei in the center of its consciousness that is the repository of all experience and all knowledge. And when you look in the eyes of your baby and you feel this sense that they are an old soul, I believe indeed they are.
Well, I think the main message is there is more to your story. There is more than what happens between the crib and the grave, and that is what I am really trying to speak to, this idea that all of life is this life and that there is nothing more than what we see and experience right here on this earth.
The biggest danger to the European Union comes not from those who advocate change, but from those who denounce new thinking as heresy. In its long history Europe has experience of heretics who turned out to have a point.
I'm not trying to be romantic. I think you can tell when people are trying to be sexy onstage. When I was doing 'All the Way,' I was really thinking about my wife. People don't know my personal experience, but they can tell it's an honest interpretation.
While teaching, I also worked undercover in the lower courts by saying I was a young law teacher wanting experience in criminal law. The judges were happy to assist me but what I learned was how corrupt the lower courts were. Judges were accepting money right in the courtroom.
I believe there's no proverb but what is true they are all so many sentences and maxims drawn from experience, the universal mother of sciences.
Loneliness is and always has been the central and inevitable experience of every man.
The deeper the experience of an absence of meaning - in other words, of absurdity - the more energetically meaning is sought.
The human face is the organic seat of beauty. It is the register of value in development, a record of Experience, whose legitimate office is to perfect the life, a legible language to those who will study it, of the majestic mistress, the soul.
I did a play called Throne of Straw when I was 11, at the Odyssey Theatre in Los Angeles. It became really clear to me at that point that I enjoyed acting more than any other experience I was having.
You can't leave out half the world's experience and expect to address all the problems. Women communicate differently and process information differently, which leads them to resolve conflicts differently.
There's nothing wrong with acknowledging the panoply of life's rich experience.
When fish experience something that would cause other animals physical pain, they behave in ways suggestive of pain, and the change in behaviour may last several hours.
Experience is what you get while looking for something else.
I've had to come to grips with a God that fits my own experience, which is, my God could not be offering protection and not have protected my boy.
From my experience, I think that every actor has to make sure that they're in charge of their own career somehow or other.
I am the the type to have a personal experience with a celebrity, but I'm too classy to bring that up.
I've always been attracted to cars, and driving is a completely measurable experience: if you qualify last on the grid, you're the slowest, and if you qualify first on the grid, you're the fastest. So no one can say you're slow if you're fast and no one can say you're fast if you're slow.
When I look back at the tapes, your first everything, your first All-Star Game, your first playoff experience, it just seems like it went by really fast.
Judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from bad judgement.
My image had always been very heterosexual, very straight. So it was a nice experience for me, a chance to clarify my own feelings about gay and lesbian civil rights.
Whether born from experience or inherent physiological or cultural differences our gender and national origins may and will make a difference in our judging.
I very rarely came across rude or disrespectful people. I don't know how I slipped by all of them, but I honestly can't think of one experience off the top of my head that was like that. I'm sure they're there, but I'd have to think really hard to recall them.
Yet higher religion, which is only a search for a larger life, is essentially experience and recognized the necessity of experience as its foundation long before science learnt to do so.
It may, however, be said that the level of experience to which concepts are inapplicable cannot yield any knowledge of a universal character, for concepts alone are capable of being socialized.
The standpoint of the man who relies on religious experience for capturing Reality must always remain individual and incommunicable.
An enormous part of our mature experience cannot not be expressed in words.
When I was 12 years old, someone took me to see Martha Graham. It was nothing like what I thought of as serious dancing and even then I knew I was having a great experience. It was as if somebody was moving through space like no one ever did before.
For some young people, their first experience ever hearing punk rock music was playing the Green Bay Packers on 'Madden'.
I have a theory that the best ads come from personal experience. Some of the good ones I have done have really come out of the real experience of my life, and somehow this has come over as true and valid and persuasive.
Many spiritual teachers - in Buddhism, in Islam - have talked about first-hand experience of the world as an important part of the path to wisdom, to enlightenment.
I've been looking to do TV for a while. I've always done guest starring stuff. I've done a couple of multi-episode arcs, and I've always loved the experience.
More people should read books. It's the most concentrated experience you can have.
The first essential in writing about anything is that the writer should have no experience of the matter.
I hate it when people don't recognize the work of women as being universal, or having any import to the world at large, as opposed to men's work, which is generally tends to be seen as more universal - men's writing about their own experience tends to be put in a broader context.
I had the experience last year of directing my first feature while I had a 1-year-old son and while I was also pregnant, so I am now well aware of the difficulties women who are rearing children face when they're also trying to make headway in mainstream of film.
You know, it shouldn't just be about women as heroic figures overcoming things, it just needs to be about women in general getting the opportunity to play a multitude of roles, telling a multitude of stories - just to express human experience from a woman's perspective. I hope, someday, we can get to that point. I'm all about representation.
There's probably no experience more alienating than fame, other than a terminal illness, where you actually find yourself in a situation that nobody around you can relate to.
One nice thing about being a woman in Hollywood is that the women tend to be very close-knit. All of us writers and directors know each other and cling to each other for safety and support, and it's really a completely different vibe than the men experience out here, where they're all trying to murder each other.
History and experience tell us that moral progress comes not in comfortable and complacent times, but out of trial and confusion.
A woman's experience is different from a man's in virtually every respect, including how she is treated by the media.
I'd like to believe an accumulation of experience has made me a sort of a grown-up person, so I can have judgment and taste and whatever.
Being an actor means asking people to look at you. I guess I accept that. But it's a profession in which the job is to show another world and other people. You may access it through bits of yourself, and your imagination and experience, but actually, in the end, you're not playing yourself.
I developed a mechanism so that whatever mistakes I made, I would bounce straight back. Whatever was happening off the pitch, I could put it to one side and maintain my form. Call it mental resilience or a strong mind, but that is what we mean when we talk about experience in a football team.
What if Barack Obama established a Presidential Advisory Committee that would meet once every couple of months, bringing together the former presidents for a conference in order to seek their collective wisdom? There is a wealth of experience in former presidents that generally goes untapped.
Experience is what enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.
A great many people experience the movement from one century to the next, but a minuscule number of people experience the movement from one millennium to the next.
I need more raw experience. I've read and watched a lot of things, but I haven't done a lot of things.
An illness is like a journey into a far country it sifts all one's experience and removes it to a point so remote that it appears like a vision.
Progress is measured by richness and intensity of experience - by a wider and deeper apprehension of the significance and scope of human existence.
I had a heartbreaking experience when I was 9. I always wanted to be a guard. The most wonderful girl in the world was a guard. When I got polio and then went back to school, they made me a guard. A teacher took away my guard button.
I think how pay gets determined is pretty broad - experience, how people look, what they bring to the job. But there's no question women are paid less. Women don't ask.
Something happens to us all when we experience something as a unit that doesn't occur when we're on our couches or holding our little portable DVD players.
What we have to get clear to kids is that when you offer your stillness and open yourself to the experience of music, it pays you back more than you give.
The things I was allowed to experience, the people I was able to call friends, teammates, mentors, coaches and opponents, the travel, all of it, are far more than anything I ever thought possible in my lifetime.
It is an axiom, enforced by all the experience of the ages, that they who rule industrially will rule politically.
And it was a great experience, you know, to travel the world and compete at a certain level. It teaches you discipline, focus, and certainly keeps you out of trouble.
Food is our common ground, a universal experience.
When I was young, I was just about hard work. But as I got older, I did experience anxiety, doubt, judgment, and it's so easy to lose yourself for a second.
The nature of the global business environment guarantees that no matter how hard we work to create a stable and healthy organisation, our organisation will continue to experience dramatic changes far beyond our control.
What is the good of drawing conclusions from experience? I don't deny we sometimes draw the right conclusions, but don't we just as often draw the wrong ones?
Without in any way minimising the economic and psychological blow that people experience when they lose their jobs, the unemployed in affluent countries still have a safety net, in the form of social security payments, and usually free healthcare and free education for their children. They also have sanitation and safe drinking water.
Anyone who teaches knows that you don't really experience a text until you've taught it, in loving detail, with an intelligent and responsive class.
Men do weird things when they experience fear. It's like a fight-or-flight thing.
In high school, I was on the youth advisory council for the Mayor's Office of Los Angeles, and that was kind of my first experience in the bureaucratic system. We tried to get things done, and nobody was really interested in getting anything done.
If your faith is opposed to experience, to human learning and investigation, it is not worth the breath used in giving it expression.
The most important American addition to the World Experience was the simple surprising fact of America. We have helped prepare mankind for all its later surprises.
All observers not laboring under hallucinations of the senses are agreed, or can be made to agree, about facts of sensible experience, through evidence toward which the intellect is merely passive, and over which the individual will and character have no control.
Our science fails to recognize those special properties of life that make it fundamental to material reality. This view of the world - biocentrism - revolves around the way a subjective experience, which we call consciousness, relates to a physical process. It is a vast mystery and one that I have pursued my entire life.
Our thoughts have an order, not of themselves, but because the mind generates the spatio-temporal relationships involved in every experience.
Politics is the only field in which the more experience you have, the worse you get.
You don't cheat anybody out of their experience, whatever it is.
Each of us brings to our job, whatever it is, our lifetime of experience and our values.
You have to see a building to comprehend it. Photographs cannot convey the experience, nor film.
So I've seen life as one long learning process. And if I see - you know, if I fly on somebody else's airline and find the experience is not a pleasant one, which it wasn't in - 21 years ago, then I'd think, well, you know, maybe I can create the kind of airline that I'd like to fly on.
Without fullness of experience, length of days is nothing. When fullness of life has been achieved, shortness of days is nothing. That is perhaps why the young have usually so little fear of death they live by intensities that the elderly have forgotten.
I prefer to think of the audience as a single living organism with which I am sharing a singular, never-to-be-repeated experience.
I think in most jobs, you get better as you get older. You gain experience, you gain knowledge.
Not what we experience, but how we perceive what we experience, determines our fate.
Ordinary professionalism and 20 years' experience can accomplish a lot, but it can't access the hidden places.
Art is the imposing of a pattern on experience, and our aesthetic enjoyment is recognition of the pattern.
Being a biological mother just isn't part of my experience this time around. However, I am a mother who continues to give birth to ideas and ways of experiencing life that challenge the norm.
There's a positive side to film and television, the sense of feeding into the theater... Your fans will follow you, hopefully, and be open-minded to see you play other things and experience other stories you want to tell.
The problem was to sustain at any cost the feeling you had in the theater that you were watching a real person, yes, but an intense condensation of his experience, not simply a realistic series of episodes.
Have you noticed in your past experience that your kind interpretations were almost always truer than you harsh one?
Given that religious faith is an intrinsic element of human experience, it is best to approach and engage the subject with a sense of history and a critical sensibility.
I can't control what people think. I'm not trying to manipulate people's thoughts or sentiments. I write all the time. You have to experience life, make observations, and ask questions. It's machine-like how things are run now in hip-hop, and my ambitions are different.
If you're writing, you're starting in private. It can really be this amazing, private, freeing experience. Forget that it's for other people - that comes in later.
Everybody's entitled to think whatever they want and to express that, but my personal day-to-day experience does not come into contact with any of those people.
Words are capable of making experience more vivid, and also of organizing it. They can scare us, and they can comfort us.
I think on-stage nudity is disgusting, shameful and damaging to all things American. But if I were 22 with a great body, it would be artistic, tasteful, patriotic and a progressive religious experience.
So that ends my first experience of matrimony, which I always thought a highly over-rated performance.
With 'Good Will Hunting,' Miramax made certain the recruited audience wasn't expecting to laugh at Robin Williams like they normally do. From my limited experience, you can really blow test screenings by conducting them in the wrong way.
There can be no knowledge without emotion. We may be aware of a truth, yet until we have felt its force, it is not ours. To the cognition of the brain must be added the experience of the soul.
I have never found, in a long experience of politics, that criticism is ever inhibited by ignorance.
In long experience I find that a man who trusts nobody is apt to be the kind of man nobody trusts.
I had a lot of experience with people smarter than I am.
Disease is an experience of a so-called mortal mind. It is fear made manifest on the body.
Education is when you read the fine print experience is what you get when you don't.
I just think that the collective experience of going to see a film is something you can't recreate.
There's a vintage which comes with age and experience.
I discovered early on that some performers live their life in order to act, so all their relationships are simply an experience that they can feed back into their work. Which I find vampiric.
At every step the child should be allowed to meet the real experience of life the thorns should never be plucked from his roses.
There is no wider gulf in the universe than yawns between those on the hither and thither side of vital experience.
I do write a lot from personal experience, but I also embellish a bit.
And we're seeing a higher level of consciousness and many more opportunities for people to challenge their present ways of thinking and move into a grander and larger experience of who they really are.
If we're picking people to draw out of their own conscience and experience a 'new' Constitution, we should not look principally for good lawyers. We should look to people who agree with us. When we are in that mode, you realize we have rendered the Constitution useless.
It lies in human nature that where you experience your first laughs, you also remember the age kindly.
The experience of being in space didn't change my perspective of myself or of the planet or of life. I had no spiritual experience.
You know, young actors say all the time, 'Should I use my own life experience?' And my response is, 'What choice do you have?'
Find what's hot, find what's just opened and then look for the worst review of the week. There is so much to learn from watching a restaurant getting absolutely panned and having a bad experience. Go and see it for yourself.
If you've got a piece and you can feel the person who's going to direct it is really made for it, if it's really special for them, then it's going to be a better-than-usual experience.
In my books, I never portray violence as a reasonable solution to a problem. If the lead characters in the story are driven to it, it's at the extreme end of their experience.
You know, in 1975 I couldn't get a job in New York City because I was American. The kitchens were predominantly run by French, Swiss, German, and basically I got laughed at. I had education, I had experience, but got laughed at because I was American.
Music is subjective to everyone's unique experience.
The aim of all commentary on art now should be to make works of art - and, by analogy, our own experience - more, rather than less, real to us. The function of criticism should be to show how it is what it is, even that it is what it is, rather than to show what it means.
The experience and behavior that gets labeled schizophrenic is a special strategy that a person invents in order to live in an unlivable situation.
Some writers can only deal with childhood experience, because it's complete. For another kind of writer, life goes on, and he's able to keep processing that as well.
There are people hell-bent on the idea that we're a Christian band in disguise, and that we have some secret message. We have no spiritual affiliation with this music. It's simply about life experience.
If a movie is really working, you forget for two hours your Social Security number and where your car is parked. You are having a vicarious experience. You are identifying, in one way or another, with the people on the screen.
Love is blind. My politics has been, too. I think you can fall in love with ideas, and you can fall in love with people. It's a very subjective experience. And I'm loyal to that experience.
Experience isn't interesting until it begins to repeat itself. In fact, till it does that, it hardly is experience.
I always thought that one of the reasons why a painter likes especially to have other painters look at his or her work is the shared experience of having pushed paint around.
Joy, rather than happiness, is the goal of life, for joy is the emotion which accompanies our fulfilling our natures as human beings. It is based on the experience of one's identity as a being of worth and dignity.
I remember when I was 33 or 34, it was devastating because I realized I wasn't a kid anymore. The great thing about 40 was that I really felt like I had life experience and knew what I was doing now.
Where you are in consciousness has everything to do with what you see in experience.
Obviously an actor draws on his own experience.
I really do love Diana Ross I grew up listening to her records. I grew up in a little town in Mexico, so while we got the music, we never got the experience of watching her.
To be in a situation where you have no rights whatsoever is something I wish everybody could experience. People's attitudes would change. It would be a better place.
I always try to keep the circumstances in my life fresh. I like to change the physical environment I live in, change the people around me and try to experience things for the first time. I think that keeps one on their toes, creatively and spiritually.
The science of politics is the one science that is deposited by the streams of history, like the grains of gold in the sand of a river and the knowledge of the past, the record of truths revealed by experience, is eminently practical, as an instrument of action and a power that goes to making the future.
Intuition is the very force or activity of the soul in its experience through whatever has been the experience of the soul itself.
Producing is just a big learning experience.
Experience taught me that working families are often just one pay check away from economic disaster. And it showed me first-hand the importance of every family having access to good health care.
Existence itself does not feel horrible it feels like an ecstasy, rather, which we have only to be still to experience.
But constant experience shows us that every man invested with power is apt to abuse it, and to carry his authority as far as it will go.
Advertising is the edge of what people know how to do and of human experience and it explains the latest ways progress has changed us to ourselves.
I think everyone's experience with a terminal disease is so deeply personal and unique to the person, the context in which they're living and the relationships that they have.
My experience is that's rare - that you have a script that is... what they call 'film-ready.'
There is only one thing which can master the perplexed stuff of epic material into unity and that is, an ability to see in particular human experience some significant symbolism of man's general destiny.
The monsters of our childhood do not fade away, neither are they ever wholly monstrous. But neither, in my experience, do we ever reach a plane of detachment regarding our parents, however wise and old we may become. To pretend otherwise is to cheat.
A spy, like a writer, lives outside the mainstream population. He steals his experience through bribes and reconstructs it.
Mysteriously and in ways that are totally remote from natural experience, the gray drizzle of horror induced by depression takes on the quality of physical pain.
The sole substitute for an experience which we have not ourselves lived through is art and literature.
I'd done table reads for my own screenplays, and I always thought they were so much fun. Why couldn't we do these for other classic screenplays and bring them to life? You can experience live theater, where you get to see plays produced by different directors and different casts, but there's really nothing like that for movie scripts.
We see our customers as invited guests to a party, and we are the hosts. It's our job every day to make every important aspect of the customer experience a little bit better.
The crucial question one comes back to is the examination without that experience is meaningless. And I think it's true that society is becoming more and more passive, less and less fired up with enthusiasm, in many spheres.
Life it is not just a series of calculations and a sum total of statistics, it's about experience, it's about participation, it is something more complex and more interesting than what is obvious.
Artists need some kind of stimulating experience a lot of times, which crystallizes when you sing about it or paint it or sculpt it. You literally mold the experience the way you want. It's therapy.
Sometimes I think our problems are made worse by the kind of business we're in. Playing these road shows is a weird experience.
Prudence is but experience, which equal time, equally bestows on all men, in those things they equally apply themselves unto.
Many women my age have known the experience of giving up crucial parts of themselves to please the man they love.
I want people to think of me as a nice person. I really am so blessed. All of this has been a great experience and I thank the American public so much for putting me in this position. I appreciate every second of it.
It has always amazed me how tax cuts don't work until they take effect. Mr. Obama's experience with deferred tax rate increases will be the reverse. The economy will collapse in 2011.
Men and women who have served in harm's way experience higher rates of divorce and suicide. Many battle the debilitating effects and stigma associated with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
No matter how close to personal experience a story might be, inevitably you are going to get to a part that isn't yours and, actually, whether it happened or not becomes irrelevant. It is all about choosing the right words.
The bullied straight kid goes home to a shoulder to cry on and support and can talk freely about his experience at school and why he's being bullied. I couldn't go home and open up to my parents.
When you go to the movies with your whole family, it's a different experience. For some reason, it's something that you're all doing together and you take away something special in that.
Making an album should be an honest experience. It shouldn't be about trying to gauge where popular music is today it should be about artistic expression and putting down what you want to put down.
My life path has been a blessing and a great learning experience. Skateboarding is my passion and I don't see that changing. When I'm not skating, I love to surf. I'm open to the new experiences and opportunities.
However it is debased or misinterpreted, love is a redemptive feature. To focus on one individual so that their desires become superior to yours is a very cleansing experience.
All of the legal defense funds out there, they're looking for people out there with court of appeals experience, because court of appeals is where policy is made. And I know, I know this is on tape and I should never say that because we don't make law, I know. I know.
Fun is to experience things you would not have been able to experience in any other setting.
I have this horrible sense of humor where I think discomfort is funny - partly because I experience discomfort a lot, and it's a way of laughing at it and getting a release.
I was emotionally and physically punched in the stomach. This is not a place where you go and deliver the lines and then you come back. It's kind of a life-changing experience. But it can't get better than this for any actor - this is like an opera.
No characters in 'Stay Close,' including the leads, are black and white. I want them to be grey. I think that makes for a much more interesting reading experience, something that will stay with you a little bit longer.
Fatigue is what we experience, but it is what a match is to an atomic bomb.
I have relationships with people I'm working with, based on our combined interest. It doesn't make the relationship any less sincere, but it does give it a focus that may not last beyond the experience.
If we could only snap the fetters of the body that bind the feet of the soul, we shall experience a great joy. Then we shall not be miserable because of the body's sufferings. We shall become free.
You have to experience life, make observations, and ask questions.
Everybody's got one killer story. It doesn't take talent to tell that story, it just takes experience.
Any place that anyone can learn something useful from someone with experience is an educational institution.
We need creativity in order to break free from the temporary structures that have been set up by a particular sequence of experience.
A great deal has been written in recent years about the purported lack of motivation in the children of the Negro ghettos. Little in my experience supports this, yet the phrase has been repeated endlessly, and the blame in almost all cases is placed somewhere outside the classroom.
Though 'Fire and Rain' is very personal, for other people it resonates as a sort of commonly held experience... And that's what happens with me. I write things for personal reasons, and then in some cases it... can be a shared experience.
I know there are people who don't like their audience or like the experience of being recognized or celebrated, but my audience has been very good - they don't bother me and when they do contact me it's usually on the nicest possible terms.
Performing is a profound experience, at least for me. It's not as if I sit down and play 'Fire and Rain' by myself, just to hear it again. But to offer it up... the energy that it somehow summons live takes me right back, and I do get a reconnection to the emotions.
Performing is a profound experience, at least for me.
I've told people who have just started to make a film that the one thing you might experience is this feeling that everybody is conspiring against you, because you're not necessarily able to tell what's real and what's not.
The American experience influenced my understanding of individuality, basic human rights, freedom of expression and the rights and responsibilities of citizens.
My own experience is that a certain kind of genius among students is best brought out in bed.
To the artist is sometimes granted a sudden, transient insight which serves in this matter for experience. A flash, and where previously the brain held a dead fact, the soul grasps a living truth! At moments we are all artists.
Anything that's different from your own realm of experience as a human being, whether it's driving a car or a boat, or using guns, anything that separates you from yourself and leads you more towards this character's existence is a big help.
I remember when I took Quentin Tarantino with me to a very private screening of the documentary 'Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired,' which shows some of the legal irregularities of his case. I was involved by the film, and it was an amazing experience to see people weep at the end of it.
What is truth? Truth doesn't really exist. Who is going to judge whether my experience of an incident is more valid than yours? No one can be trusted to be the judge of that.
America is an idea. And it's the solemn responsibility of each 'temporary' president to protect and nurture that noblest of all ideas - with integrity. This man, Mitt Romney, has shown - not through his experience, but through his actions and words - that he is unqualified to carry out that responsibility.
I absolutely believe in the power of tithing and giving back. My own experience about all the blessings I've had in my life is that the more I give away, the more that comes back. That is the way life works, and that is the way energy works.
Every day is a new experience and I take it as it comes.
Reading a book is like re-writing it for yourself. You bring to a novel, anything you read, all your experience of the world. You bring your history and you read it in your own terms.
Some of us are interested in directors, but really the vast majority of us are interested in actors. You experience the films through the actors, so they're all locked into your imagination in some kind of layer of fantasy or hatred or wherever they settle into your imagination.
I don't want people to sit there and objectively watch the film. I want them to experience it as something that's under their skin, so you try to make the films really tactile.
You experience the films through the actors, so they're all locked into your imagination in some kind of layer of fantasy or hatred or wherever they settle into your imagination.
I think it's easy for people to assume that fame is equal to glory, but it can be a very isolating experience.
Orlando's a really cool guy. They hired him for 'Lord of the Rings' out of drama school. He's very new at this still and doesn't have a lot of experience. So we were in this together and we've tried to help each other out. We felt very equal which was good.
I have three goddaughters - I'm not sure why they trust me, because I have no experience with children - but I try.
I left Jamaica for a while, because as an artist I need to experience different things, see the world, have different energies. Living in one place is not good for me.
I always considered myself as a character actor. I always try to be versatile to show different sides of human experience.
I think I can make an entirely new game experience, and if I can't do it, some other game designer will.
I don't think as a creator that I could create an experience that truly feels interactive if you don't have something to hold in your hand, if you don't have something like force feedback that you can feel from the controller.
Games have grown and developed from this limited in-the-box experience to something that's everywhere now. Interactive content is all around us, networked, ready. This is something I've been hoping for throughout my career.
The spectacles of experience through them you will see clearly a second time.
I'm a very passionate believer in the unity of knowledge. There is one world of reality - one world of our experience that we're seeking to describe.
Bottom up thinkers try to start from experience and move from experience to understanding. They don't start with certain general principles they think beforehand are likely to be true they just hope to find out what reality is like.
When I'm home on a break, I lock myself in my room and play guitar. After two or three hours, I start getting into this total meditation. It's a feeling few people experience, and that's usually when I come up with weird stuff. It just flows. I can't force myself. I don't sit down and say I've got to practice.
A lot of people fear death because they think that so overwhelming an experience has to be painful, but I've seen quite a few deaths, and, with one exception, I've never known anyone to undergo anything like agony. That's amazing when you think about it. I mean, how complicated the mechanism is that's being taken apart.
But beginners to the World Economics Forum have to understand there is no single Davos experience, and there is no single Davos community either. There are numerous tribes who interact only at a minimal level.
It's always an interesting experience for a politician to be heard in silence, I have to say.
It's a very small and select slice of all the people who have ever been born. I believe we've come back during this time, those of us who are here now, specifically to experience it. And to cause a 'quickening of the spirit.'
I wanted to experience New York, to look up and see buildings.
A rare experience of a moment at daybreak, when something in nature seems to reveal all consciousness, cannot be explained at noon. Yet it is part of the day's unity.
I think I have a tendency to look at things subjectively rather than objectively when I reflect on my experience.
Age should not have its face lifted, but it should rather teach the world to admire wrinkles as the etchings of experience and the firm line of character.
Age is only a number, a cipher for the records. A man can't retire his experience. He must use it. Experience achieves more with less energy and time.
Women artists need to break barriers in order for women's experience to be valuable.
I think generally I'm kind of interested in subjective experience, what goes on inside someone's head, that being all they really know of the world.
The wisdom and experience of older people is a resource of inestimable worth. Recognizing and treasuring the contributions of older people is essential to the long-term flourishing of any society.
A commitment to human rights cannot be fostered simply through the transmission of knowledge. Action and experience play a crucial role in the learning process.
Writing a novel is a terrible experience, during which the hair often falls out and the teeth decay.
Lord of the Rings was my first experience making movies and at the time, I had no ideas how movies were done. I thought that's the way they're done, so in a way, I had nothing to compare it to.
I'm not particularly precious about the theatrical experience any more.
A lot of why I do something is just the novelty of the experience.
Every experience feeds an actor, and I've learned that depression is all around us.
I want to be able to experience everything. I want to experience being a husband, experience being a father, experience, maybe, hopefully, someday being a grandfather, and all those things. I want that experience. When I die, I want to be exhausted.
All experience is subjective.
We have that illusion that we are 'deciding' what to make a character do, in order to 'convey our message' or something like that. But, at least in my experience, you are often more like a river-rafting guide who's been paid a bonus to purposely steer your clients into the roughest possible water.
If you haven't read you don't have the voice. The lack of voice eliminates experience.
Although our inattention can contribute to our lack of total well-being, we also have the power to choose positive behaviors and responses. In that choice we change our every experience of life!
I'm very accepting with my age. It's like notches on your belt: experience, wisdom, and a different kind of beauty. There comes a day when you've become comfortable in your skin.
A statesman wants courage and a statesman wants vision but believe me, after six months' experience, he wants first, second, third and all the time - patience.
Through the years of experience I have found that air offers less resistance than dirt.
You have to trust your kids. They have to experience life, and you just hope you've provided them a foundation for what's right and what isn't.
I had great faith in Irish actors, that they'd be hip to the whole theatre thing, and they are. I had no illusions of coming over here as some kind of big shot. It's been a learning experience for me too.
You can live your whole life in your brain and not experience what's around you. You go crazy that way.
No matter how vital experience might be while you lived it, no sooner was it ended and dead than it became as lifeless as the piles of dry dust in a school history book.
Doesn't all experience crumble in the end to mere literary material?
I started off on stage because it was the only work I could get. I haven't been back for 11 years. I think any stage experience is good experience, as far as being an actor is concerned.
No one ever pretended that shopping for anything is a rational experience. If it were, would there be Fluffernutter? Laceless sneakers? Porkpie hats? Would the Chia Pet even exist?
My own life has in some ways been a decades-long tour of the sibling experience. I have full sibs, I have half-sibs, and for a time I had step-sibs.
There are a lot of obstacles in the way of our understanding animal intelligence - not the least being that we can't even agree whether nonhuman species are conscious. We accept that chimps and dolphins experience awareness we like to think dogs and cats do. But what about mice and newts? What about a fly? Is anything going on there at all?
As with real reading, the ability to comprehend subtlety and complexity comes only with time and a lot of experience. If you don't adequately acquire those skills, moving out into the real world of real people can actually become quite scary.
Bringing an end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians may help the young Arab generation to realise their aspirations. Israel is more than willing to offer our experience in building a modern economy in spite of limited resources to the whole region.
I like directors who have worked as actors. They know the experience.
Yes, I've listened to just a few audiobooks - but hope to listen to more. I've wanted to investigate how my own books sound in this format and find the experience of listening, and not reading, quite fascinating.
There's no wrong way to experience a film.
I wouldn't say I'm a very original thinker, but if I have a good experience with something, I'll want to take it further or adapt it in some way.
For me, titles are either a natural two-second experience or stressful enough to give you an ulcer. If they don't pop out perfect on the first try, they can be really hard to repair. Or, worse, if the author thinks they pop out perfect, but the publishing house does not agree, it's difficult to shift gears. And then? Then you go insane.
Stories have always been the things that entertain me and make me feel happy and sad and move me and give me the experience of being able to live many lives in one lifetime. It's the best thing about being alive.
If you're out there stressing on your pro day, then you're not going to perform well, so I plan on having a little fun. Play a little music while we're out there throwing the football, have everybody tapping their toes and bobbing their head and just go out there and make the most of the experience.
I find increasingly that the more extreme are the things going on in your life, the more cultural reference points fail you. More mythical reference points actually help, and you realise that's what myths are for. It's for human beings to process their experience in extremis.
I think being a parent is the most challenging thing you do. That's why we're here. It's at the heart of what it is to be a human being. It's the ultimate experience because it questions everything about who you are. But it's difficult.
If one area I felt it was a tough election was I couldn't see my young son and I couldn't see my wife a lot, but apart from that for her also it was an experience.
In fact the experience at Oxford has really helped me later in life.
I was quite able at the insignificant work I did in MI6, but absolutely dysfunctional in my domestic life. I had no experience of fatherhood. I had no example of marital bliss or the family unit.
As an actress, it's part of your job to be able to imagine just about anything - even if it's not within your personal experience.
If you search and search and stop searching, then ultimately you'll find what you need. It is the experience of living.
Writing a story or a novel is one way of discovering sequence in experience, of stumbling upon cause and effect in the happenings of a writer's own life.
I learn from experience.
It's always good to get a smaller tournament under your belt so that by the time you get to the Slams, you have a lot of experience.
There's no experience like on-the-job training.
I started thinking about joy. Everything in our society is so purposeful. Let's bring joy back to the experience.
When I was 27 years old, I organized legal aid clinics to help low-income seniors. It was a life-altering experience.
Yes, all my songs come from personal experience and relationships.
The essence of a role-playing game is that it is a group, cooperative experience.
I think newspapers shouldn't try to compete directly with the Web, and should do what they can do better, which may be long-form journalism and using photos and art, and making connections with large-form graphics and really enhancing the tactile experience of paper.
Well, my background is journalism. I don't have any creative-writing experience except for one class I took as a sophomore in college.
Religion points to that area of human experience where in one way or another man comes upon mystery as a summons to pilgrimage.
Do I ever think Gossip will be really massive in America? No, I don't think it'll happen - and that's fine. It's kind of nice because I get to experience everything at once. I get to come home and it not be weird, like in Paris or something. It is nice to be completely anonymous.
Great art - or good art - is when you look at it, experience it and it stays in your mind. I don't think conceptual art and traditional art are all that different.
These are tough times and under this Tory-led government many people in Manchester are suffering and getting left behind. If elected I will use all my energy, skills, experience and knowledge to stand up for our communities and get things done for the better.
I guess my experience with some stuff is kind of abstract.
For me, I'd rather have an intense experience than not.
Boredom is the dream bird that hatches the egg of experience. A rustling in the leaves drives him away.
I wouldn't go up on a stage now if you paid a thousand dollars for one minute of acting. It's a nasty experience. You're up there all by yourself. You're so damn exposed.
I was never afraid of failure after that because, I think, coming that close to death you get kissed. With the years, the actual experience of course fades, but the flavor of it doesn't. I just had a real sense of what choice do I have but to live fully?
My parents had an experience of life that is as opposite to mine as you can imagine.
It's wonderful to be in love. And it's definitely wonderful to cuddle and have sex and get to experience life with somebody. But it's OK if you don't find him and you're 24. You can find it someday.
No matter what his position or experience in life, there is in everyone more latent than developed ability far more unused than used power.
I felt alienated by the experience and decided to stay away from corporate employment.
The printed page conveys information and commitment, and requires active involvement. Television conveys emotion and experience, and it's very limited in what it can do logically. It's an existential experience - there and then gone.
None of us feels the true love of God till we realize how wicked we are. But you can't teach people that - they have to learn by experience.
I enjoy writing but I much prefer the experience of having written.
The fact that I am a writer comes from the experience of being cut away from my roots and living in Venezuela, where I couldn't find a place for myself, for years and years.
People were being so mean as a result of my ability - a gift, really. So I think that's what makes me fight harder to provide an option to aspiring kids or artists. I wouldn't want anyone to go through what I went through... to see a little girl or a little dancer experience such unnecessary rejection.
I have the ordinary experience of being anonymous when I'm in an airplane talking to air-traffic control, and they don't know who they're talking to. I have a lot of common experiences.
To me, the job of the artist is to provide a useful and intelligent vocabulary for the world to be able to articulate feelings they experience everyday, and otherwise wouldn't have the means to express in a meaningful and useful way.
Making movies is a very different experience in a lot of ways. It's difficult when you're used to owning the copyright and having a landlord's possessory rights - I rent my plays to the companies that do them and, if I'm upset, I can pull the play. But the only two directors I've worked with are pretty great.
Acting can be a narrow and isolated experience, because you only examine your particular part.
In my experience, there is only one motivation, and that is desire. No reasons or principle contain it or stand against it.
That's one of the benefits of working on big budget films. You work with people who have a lot of experience and you get to learn a lot.
I was an only child. I've known only children. From this experience, I do believe that the children should outnumber the parents.
Film is such a bizarre vehicle for acting. It's such a bizarre experience. I don't think you ever really get familiar with it. If you do get familiar with it, you're probably not that good anymore.
When a novel has 200,000 words, then it is possible for the reader to experience 200,000 delights, and to turn back to the first page of the book and experience them all over again, perhaps more intensely.
I definitely feel more complete than before. There's a void you have when you don't feel you've found the other part of who you are, so I'm in a different place now and that's nice to experience.
I think it's really, really important to mix it up as an actor, to try to get as much kind of varied experience as you can, not only for your own personal growth as an actor but for the audience to keep them guessing about what you're going to do.
I'm a method writer. In order to write about the emotion, I have to experience it. I get physically tired and exhausted, devoting hours and hours and hours to it.
You can't dodge them all. I got hammered plenty of times through the years. But you just get up and keep playing. I can tell you from experience, though. Sometimes it hurts like hell.
It is often difficult to watch yourself onscreen, especially 60-feet high. As an actor, it is an uncomfortable experience.
I've learned through experience of playing different characters, some of whom were jerks, that when you play a character who is pretentious or obnoxious, in any way, it's important to knock them down a peg.
I have a mess in my head sometimes, and there's something very satisfying about putting it into words. Certainly it's not something that you're in charge of, necessarily, but writing about it, putting it into your words, can be a very powerful experience.
A city building, you experience when you walk a suburban building, you experience when you drive.
My worst hair experience was when I was trying to relax my hair and my grandmother did it. It went all straight and I looked like a black Bee Gee.
Actually, music gave me the support when I needed it. I would never have gone to college unless I'd gotten a piano scholarship. And now I'm so glad I got to learn to play the cello, which is a different experience, you're flexing a different muscle, but it's beautiful because it is music.
I hate these platforms that are all over the place today they are all about grabbing attention. They are suburban! I never do a platform. Well, I did, in the 1970s, but that was a bad experience.
There's full consensus in the military that women shouldn't be in person-to-person combat. I don't know if we have enough experience to know whether this is the right approach. But women can be elsewhere. We have mandatory military service in Chile. I pushed for women in all areas.
Practical wisdom is only to be learned in the school of experience. Precepts and instruction are useful so far as they go, but, without the discipline of real life, they remain of the nature of theory only.
Our subjective experience of time is highly variable. We all know that days can pass like weeks and months can feel like years, and that the opposite can be just as true: A month or year can zoom by in what feels like no time at all.
The experience gathered from books, though often valuable, is but the nature of learning whereas the experience gained from actual life is one of the nature of wisdom.
Just as we accumulate memories of facts by integrating them into a network, we accumulate life experiences by integrating them into a web of other chronological memories. The denser the web, the denser the experience of time.
Experience teaches us that we do not always receive the blessings we ask for in prayer.
My father respected and admired my mother and was a person who was always standing by my side, encouraging me to do more and believed in my capacity. So in that sense, my own experience was very good in becoming an empowered woman. From early on, I carried that strong message: 'You can do it.' So I never had any doubt that women can do a lot.
Other people do not have to change for us to experience peace of mind.
I believe that being an actress or being involved in a movie has to be a life experience, otherwise why go for it? I have to change me, and I have to learn things, and I have to push me and my limits. By acting, I find a freedom inside of a prison in a way.
Like every aspect of cancer I've weathered thus far, today's experience was not at all demoralizing, expensive or humiliating. No, it was just plain fun.
Life is full of change and uncertainty. We know this. We experience it on a daily basis.
I've had a fair amount of experience with snakes, and I find them to be pretty honest in terms of how you read their body language and emotions. They'll tell you when they're grumpy. They'll tell you when they're okay.
Education is when you read the fine print. Experience is what you get if you don't.
I had such a close relationship with my dog, and my dog so filled the need in my life to have children that I just wanted Cathy to have that experience.
Baseball is a rookie, his experience no bigger than the lump in his throat as he begins fulfillment of his dream.
If the experience of science teaches anything, it's that the world is very strange and surprising. The many revolutions in science have certainly shown that.
The impulse to dream was slowly beaten out of me by experience. Now it surged up again and I hungered for books, new ways of looking and seeing.
I think theatre is by far the most rewarding experience for an actor. You get 4 weeks to rehearse your character and then at 7:30 pm you start acting and nobody stops you, acting with your entire soul.
But in the back of my mind I've always looked to the biggest-scale Hollywood movies. Because to me the most satisfying experience is of watching a movie, if it's done really well. And so that aspiration is always it for me, if I have the opportunity to do it.
Man tells his aspiration in his God but in his demon he shows his depth of experience.
In my experience, it's all wonderful with girls until about 16. Around that time, boys kind of calm down and start focusing their testosterone. Girls get a little challenging, especially for fathers.
Whenever something happens that makes me laugh or if I remember something in the middle of the night that I want to share, I jot the experience down.
My kids will grow up in a house knowing that it's perfectly normal for two men to be in love, it's perfectly normal for two women to be in love. My kids will grow up knowing it's all about love. It doesn't matter who you're with and everyone should have that experience.
I'd like to work with Justin Bieber. He's talented and he's so young. I know what he's going through. I've lived what he's living through right now. Working with him would complete a circle of sorts for me. And he might find it a worthwhile experience himself.
"Donny and Marie' was a great experience. I tried so hard to be a great talk show host but it's all about relaxing and enjoying it. Marie and I finally figured that out. I would have liked it to continue but I'm kind of glad it's over because of the phenomenal workload.;Donny Osmond;experience
18094;I didn't go to high school, so I don't have a high school experience. I was home-schooled during high school.;Josh Hutcherson;experience
18095;My faith experience, well, as you can imagine, you need a lot of faith to raise five boys.;Ann Romney;experience
18096;It's been quite an experience, being conservative and living in the North East.;Ann Romney;experience
18097;There can be nothing exclusive about substantial art. It comes directly out of the heart of the experience of life and thinking about life and living life.;Charles Ives;experience
18098;I decided blacks should not have to experience the difficulties I had faced, so I decided to open a flying school and teach other black women to fly.;Bessie Coleman;experience
18099;The only time I ever went hunting I remembered it as a grisly experience.;Gloria Swanson;experience
18100;When you do find humor in trying times, one of the first and most important changes you experience is that you see your perplexing problems in a new way - you suddenly have a new perspective on them.;Allen Klein;experience
18101;My Marine experience helped shape who I am now personally and professionally, and I am grateful for that on an almost daily basis.;Jim Lehrer;experience
18102;A sense of freedom is something that, happily, comes with age and life experience.;Diane Keaton;experience
18103;The act of writing... is the act of trying to understand why my opinion is what it is. And ultimately, I think that's the same experience the reader has when they pick up one of my books.;Jodi Picoult;experience
18104;To pursue a so-called Third Way is foolish. We had our experience with this in the 1960s when we looked for a socialism with a human face. It did not work, and we must be explicit that we are not aiming for a more efficient version of a system that has failed.;Vaclav Klaus;experience
18105;And I thought, when I have kids, that's the sort of well told, silly, and fun fairy tale that I would want to take them to. But it was an amazing experience. And I think Shrek is a real classic, a fairy tale classic.;Mike Myers;experience
18106;I would love to be a father. I had a great father who taught me how gratifying that is. I'm not going to deny myself that. I think I'd be good at it. Everybody wants that experience. I definitely do.;Mike Myers;experience
18107;You can never regret anything you do in life. You kind of have to learn the lesson from whatever the experience is and take it with you on your journey forward.;Aubrey O'Day;experience
18108;When I go to my live shows it's often a multigenerational audience, a family bonding experience.;Al Yankovic;experience
18109;Directing is a more pragmatic experience, where you have to deal with the restrictions of time and money that force you to make certain decisions you don't have to make when you're writing.;Charlie Kaufman;experience
18110;When I'm writing, I'm trying to immerse myself in the chaos of an emotional experience, rather than separate myself from it and look back at it from a distance with clarity and tell it as a story. Because that's how life is lived, you know?;Charlie Kaufman;experience
18111;I think you just assume that your memory is just sort of a video playback of your experience, but it's nothing like that at all. It's a complete refabrication of an event and a lot of it is made up, because you're filling in spaces.;Charlie Kaufman;experience
18112;Reading the play at home, however fulfilling, can never be the vivacious experience that Shakespeare intended.;Arthur Smith;experience
18113;Learning is a tunnel experience that makes us think more broadly.;Anna Deavere Smith;experience
18114;In life there are no problems, that is, objective and external choices there is only the life which we do not resolve as a problem but which we live as an experience, whatever the final result may be.;Alberto Moravia;experience
18115;Have you ever watched someone become American? Last week, at a national citizenship conference I organize, thirty immigrants from 17 countries swore an oath and became citizens of the United States. It was a stirring experience for the hundreds of people in the room.;Eric Liu;experience
18116;People who run for president seriously and people who become president enter a bizarre secret society in which they have had an experience that none of us will ever have.;John Hodgman;experience
18117;The most experience I had in the criminology field is playing a thug as an actor. That was my first paid job. The police academy at the college was paying people to reenact the calls that potential cops would get. So I got to play thugs and people who were unruly.;Jeremy Renner;experience
18118;It was a very profound experience, getting in touch with that part of us, in all of us human beings, that is committed beyond yourself to the point of giving everything you have, including your life, for other people, for your fellow man.;Raul Julia;experience
18119;While I was trying to save money to go to the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Australia I ended up getting all of this experience which meant that by the time I had enough money in the bank to go to school I didn't really need to go to school anymore.;Russell Crowe;experience
18120;You can learn more from the lows than the highs. The highs are great but the lows make you really look at things in a different way and want to improve. Every player will have both in their careers and I have, but what you get is that experience which is so important to perform at your best.;Wayne Rooney;experience
18121;As is known, it is in the realm of experience inaugurated by psychoanalysis that we may grasp along what imaginary lines the human organism, in the most intimate recesses of its being, manifests its capture in a symbolic dimension.;Jacques Lacan;experience
18122;I think the most interesting parts of human experience might be the sparks that come from that sort of chipping flint of cultures rubbing against each other. And living on the border between Mexico and the U.S. for so many years gave me a lot of insight into that.;Barbara Kingsolver;experience
18123;I eventually became proud of my strikeouts, because each one represented another learning experience.;Willie Stargell;experience
18124;I think experience will teach you a combination of liberalism and conservatism. We have to be progressive and at the same time we have to retain values. We have to hold onto the past as we explore the future.;Oliver Stone;experience
18125;I would vote for the man who's lived life, who's done different occupations, who's been out in the real world and struggled to make a living, struggled to raise a family, struggled with life as it exists. So I'd vote for experience, honest experience.;Oliver Stone;experience
18126;It was a great experience for a kid, because it was a bunch of kids playing on pirate ships and water slides, so looking back on it, it was the fondest experience of my childhood.;Corey Feldman;experience
18127;We certainly want those at the top to do well, but if you base your entire presidency and your entire economic platform on helping them do even better, you're missing what makes the economy tick. Because not everyone has been as fortunate as Mitt Romney, you cannot base your whole approach on a life experience as rarified as his.;Charles Schumer;experience
18128;There are many reasons why Mitt Romney should not become president, but perhaps the most important of all is the narrowness of his experience, perspective and vision.;Charles Schumer;experience
18129;There are more people than you think who want to have a challenging experience, in which they are obliged to reflect about the past.;Umberto Eco;experience
18130;When I'm writing, I'm constantly thinking about myself, because it's the only experience I have to draw on. And I don't see an exact reflection of myself in every face in the audience, but I know that my songs have validity to them, and that's why the fans are there.;Chester Bennington;experience
18131;I think women don't grow up with the harsh world of criticism that men grow up with, we are more sensitively treated, and when you first experience the world of film-making you have to develop a very tough skin.;Jane Campion;experience
18132;With 'Bright Star' and with 'The Piano,' too, I felt a kind of sadness about it being in such a different era, because of my lack of experience with the era. And one of the ways I'd get over it is to remind myself that every film, even if it's contemporary, creates its own world.;Jane Campion;experience
18133;In almost everything, experience is more valuable than precept.;Quintilian;experience
18134;You shouldn't be afraid of failure - when something fails, you think, 'What did I learn from that experience? I can do better next time.' Then kill that project and move on to the next. Don't get disappointed.;Niklas Zennstrom;experience
18135;I think that the mark of a great book is that it will meet you wherever you're at and you'll feel and experience something new and different each time you read it.;Josh Radnor;experience
18136;Well, I stopped drinking. That was actually a big deal. I didn't go through any harrowing rock-bottom experience. I just made a decision to stop drinking.;Josh Radnor;experience
18137;Whatever it is you want to do, take a job in that field. You will learn by experience and, slow and steady, you'll get it done!;Rachael Ray;experience
18138;I feel that the Christian experience and the Jewish one have much to give each other. If this open society continues and there is no return to political anti-Semitism, then this encounter, deeper than any theology, may happen.;Lionel Blue;experience
18139;One of the things in the back of my mind is that, after my sports experience, I never want to be, totally consumed by any one endeavor, other than my family life.;Julius Erving;experience
18140;By experience we find out a short way by a long wandering.;Roger Ascham;experience
18141;I think most artists will experience a lot of negative people on Twitter but, thank God, I've got so many followers that I'm not able to see them that much. I'll see some from time to time but, for the most part, I always focus on something good.;Nicki Minaj;experience
18142;I think we're the only jokeless show on television. I mean really, we have no setups and no punch lines. It's not a joke show. There are funny lines and funny moments but again the comedy is born of the human experience and awkward pauses are a great part of what it is to be human.;Rainn Wilson;experience
18143;Experience tells you what to do confidence allows you to do it.;Stan Smith;experience
18144;My time at Shell was a most valuable experience because it taught me to look at the world in a long-term way. Shell takes a 20-year view on events and plans for different scenarios. It makes you see the world as a kind of large matrix.;Vince Cable;experience
18145;I feel that between my experience and my mother's, breast cancer is a little bit like someone who lives next door. I know what that person looks like and what their daily habits are.;Cynthia Nixon;experience
18146;An adolescent is somebody who is in between things. A teenager is somebody who's kind of permanently there. And so living with them through the various teenage hopes and sorrows and joys was curiously enough a maturing experience for me.;Andrew Greeley;experience
18147;I raised five children. They all have different personalities. All of them have different issues, different levels of success. That was a learning experience for me.;T. D. Jakes;experience
18148;Physics is experience, arranged in economical order.;Ernst Mach;experience
18149;Individuals approaching death often experience encounters with their dead relatives, who seem to welcome them to the next world. These deathbed visions are authentic and convincing they are often followed by a state of euphoria and seem to ease the transition.;Stanislav Grof;experience
18150;I read Freud's Introductory Lectures in Psychoanalysis in basically one sitting. I decided to enroll in medical school. It was almost like a conversion experience.;Stanislav Grof;experience
18151;Dying before dying has two important consequences: It liberates the individual from the fear of death and influences the actual experience of dying at the time of biological demise.;Stanislav Grof;experience
18152;I mean, I'm an uncle of seven or eight, and I don't mind it at all! Kids are great. Kids are the best six-hour experience you can have!;Chris O'Dowd;experience
18153;By presenting a faithful and honest record of my experience as a mother, I hope to show both my readers and my children how truth can redeem even what you fear might be the gravest of sins.;Ayelet Waldman;experience
18154;I have my team. Like if you see everyone around me - I have my hair and makeup girl, my assistant. They're very calm, they're all about positive energy. There're no drama queens. Everyone wants everyone else to have a positive experience. There are no agendas. I think it creates a healthy environment and there are no boundaries to cross.;Fergie;experience
18155;When you're a soul singer, I'm singing a lot of songs about love and relationships that I think a lot of girls really relate to. For whatever reason, that seems to get 'em excited. The DJ, everyone always says the DJ gets all the chicks, but that's never been my experience.;Mayer Hawthorne;experience
18156;My experience, with both my parents, is that grief has a lot of down, sad things, but I was also really emotionally raw, in the first year after each of them passed. Flowers smelled more intensely, my relationships were hotter, and I was more willing to risk. I was going for it a lot more. I was 'unsober' and I wasn't playing by my rules.;Mike Mills;experience
18157;Quality is a direct experience independent of and prior to intellectual abstractions.;Robert M. Pirsig;experience
18158;Although we have, in theory, abolished human slavery, recognized women's rights, and stopped child labor, we continue to enslave other species who, if we simply pay attention, show quite clearly that they experience parental love, pain, and the desire for freedom, just as we do.;Ingrid Newkirk;experience
18159;Fundamental ideas are not a consequence of experience, but a result of the particular constitution and activity of the mind, which is independent of all experience in its origin, though constantly combined with experience in its exercise.;William Whewell;experience
18160;People only talk about what a joyous experience it is, but there is terror: Your life, as you know it, is over. It's over the day that child is born. It's over, and something completely new starts.;Bill Murray;experience
18161;Emigration, forced or chosen, across national frontiers or from village to metropolis, is the quintessential experience of our time.;John Berger;experience
18162;Experience is that marvelous thing that enable you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.;Franklin P. Jones;experience
18163;Films that are entertainments give simple answers but I think that's ultimately more cynical, as it denies the viewer room to think. If there are more answers at the end, then surely it is a richer experience.;Michael Haneke;experience
18164;You can use your means in a good and bad way. In German-speaking art, we had such a bad experience with the Third Reich, when stories and images were used to tell lies. After the war, literature was careful not to do the same, which is why writers began to reflect on the stories they told and to make readers part of their texts. I do the same.;Michael Haneke;experience
18165;What's great about the geek spirit is that life never seems to stop us, and they never seem to kill our enthusiasm, our optimism and our hunger to experience the world. We keep our sense of humor, we protect our dignity, we talk to our friends about the experience and then we start again fresh the very next day.;Paul Feig;experience
18166;The greatest way for people to experience a comedy is to go in not knowing anything about it. But because of marketing, it's impossible. Marketing meaning that in order to get people to come you can't just go, 'Hey, there's a great movie - we're not going to show you anything from it but trust us!"
At an incredibly divisive point in pop history, Donna Summer managed to create an undeniable across-the-board experience of mass pleasure - after 'Bad Girls,' nobody ever tried claiming disco sucked again. It set the template for what Michael Jackson would do a few months later with 'Off The Wall.'
Watching the evening news in 2011 is a strange time-travel experience. 'The CBS Evening News,' 'ABC World News' and 'NBC Nightly News' haven't changed their style over the decades, still going for that old-fashioned mix of voice-of-authority pomp and feel-good fluff. The difference is that people aren't watching.
Acting is a very personal process. It has to do with expressing your own personality, and discovering the character you're playing through your own experience - so we're all different.
Enough of this occupation, terror and abuse. We are not in need of your help. We are able to combat and defeat terrorism, and achieve unity. We are not in need of your bases, your experience and etc.
I mean, I really liked those guys and the experience of doing Raiders was really good for me, but I did not really want to be involved - I only did Jedi, as I really owed George a favor.
Rhetoric and dialectics can't change what I have learned from observation and experience.
I'm a very professional man. I'm not out for the experience of adventure.
I think a lot comes from having the experience of doing stand-up comedy. It allows you to figure out the psychology of an audience what things are funny and not.
Before this learning experience, I had assumed that with regard to programs that sought to help people out of poverty, the political world was essentially divided into two camps: conservatives who opposed these for a variety of reasons, and liberals who supported them.
While I was pleasantly surprised by the relatively high number of jobs created in April, the fact is that job creation during this recovery period has significantly lagged both historical experience in recovery, and the projections of the Bush Administration.
Whatever education I got was from experience and reading. But I also realize I wouldn't pass my friend's sixth-grade class.
I just love to experience things. I would do almost anything once.
I don't think any good book is based on factual experience. Bad books are about things the writer already knew before he wrote them.
Literature overtakes history, for literature gives you more than one life. It expands experience and opens new opportunities to readers.
Experience is the extract of suffering.
There are people who never experience that, who remain closed until death, from fear of change.
Capital isn't that important in business. Experience isn't that important. You can get both of these things. What is important is ideas.
Experience, already reduced to a group of impressions, is ringed round for each one of us by that thick wall of personality through which no real voice has ever pierced on its way to us, or from us to that which we can only conjecture to be without.
It was a very bizarre experience for me, to get the songs together, go in there, and try to deliver them as I would perhaps in a live setting. But I realized that I couldn't take on that coffeehouse style that I came from and go in there and burn it up.
Well, for me, what I've learned at the very end of this, love is sharing, and I think that really is, for me, the best place to go to experience love, is sharing.
In some movies you feel like you're a very small part of a huge machine. Whereas in the theater you can have a very small part, but you can still feel the weight and the gravity of it. Given the nature of theater, it's a more concentrated and quiet experience.
Magicians lose the opportunity to experience a sense of wonder.
I didn't know if I had the music for it or if I could pull off the larger concert experience. Then I realized if I can just continue to be myself, I'll be all right.
I know from my own experience and from other people in the business that when you come from a place where nobody knew who you were and then there is this sudden shift to where everybody now knows who you are, there's an adjustment that you have to make.
My films don't give you an easy ride. I can see that. The sense I get is that people have quite a physical experience with them. They feel afterwards that they've really been through something.
With a lot of films, people are sitting on the outside looking in, but I want the audience to get a bit more intimately involved with what's going on, so that they maybe can experience it a little bit more intensely.
If there's any object in human experience that's a precedent for what a computer should be like, it's a musical instrument: a device where you can explore a huge range of possibilities through an interface that connects your mind and your body, allowing you to be emotionally authentic and expressive.
I've had a great experience with pretty much everybody I've worked with.
God's way of answering the Christian's prayer for more patience, experience, hope and love often is to put him into the furnace of affliction.
From this experience we have learned that in a big party it is important to have the necessary and often controversial discussions on policy issues such as the health system while in opposition.
If you build that foundation, both the moral and the ethical foundation, as well as the business foundation, and the experience foundation, then the building won't crumble.
I wouldn't say I'm a method actor. I do research when I feel I don't have enough experience for the part I'm playing.
My ultimate aim is to make euthanasia a positive experience.
Theatre, when it is at its best, takes a lot of beating - the live experience and the shared collective experience of live storytelling is really special when it is good. Particularly here in New York because the audiences are amazing, very vocal and very engaged, and that makes theatre very exciting.
From my experience, politicians are much more uncomfortable being made fun of than they are being preached at and screeched at - you know, and the soapbox routine. They're much more uneasy knowing they're a target of ridicule.
The underlying message of the Lancet article is that if you want to understand aggressive behaviour in children, look to the social and emotional environment in which they are growing up, and the values they bring to the viewing experience.
The president felt that it was important to send an ordinary citizen to experience the excitement of space travel as a representative for all Americans.
The mind uses its faculty for creativity only when experience forces it to do so.
When they call the slightest spending reductions 'painful', we will say 'If government spending prevents pain, why are we suffering so much of it?' And 'If you want to experience real pain, just stay on the track we are on.'
You know, I've learned a lot from every person I've collaborated with, from Madlib to Jean Grae and Hi-Tek, to Mos to DJ Quik, to even somebody like Jermaine Dupri. I've taken something important away from every experience.
Not only did I avoid speaking of Salinger I resisted thinking about him. I did not reread his letters to me. The experience had been too painful.
If people choose to live their life in a way that does not confront the more troubling aspects of their experience, that's fine, if it works for them. But it will probably make them uncomfortable if they come up against somebody like me. So they just shouldn't! They shouldn't read my work!
There is no winning or losing, but rather the value is in the experience of imagining yourself as a character in whatever genre you're involved in, whether it's a fantasy game, the Wild West, secret agenst or whatever else. You get to sort of vicariously experience those things.
If you believe your catcher is intelligent and you know that he has considerable experience, it is a good thing to leave the game almost entirely in his hands.
In my experience an appreciative letter from a fellow writer means a lot.
A twenty-one-year-old writer is likely to be inhibited by a lack of usable experience. Childhood and adolescence were something I knew.
I live with one foot in the sand and one in the snow. There's European egocentricity, and the African opposite. I normally say that my African experience has made me a better European.
There are a lot of impractical things about owning a Porsche. But they're all offset by the driving experience. It really is unique. Lamborghinis and Ferraris come close. And they are more powerful, but they don't handle like a Porsche.
But I just know from experience that accent wise, even if you're an accent genius, crossing the Atlantic is the hardest thing in the world either way.
When he brought it to me four years ago, Rodney King had just arrived, I was involved in the clean-up of L.A. and I guess it was part of my experience.
I know from my own personal experience. I was bullied in middle school and high school and went through my fair share of hard times thereafter. Also, one of my really good friends committed suicide when I was in high school.
I don't think people should have boundaries put on them, by themselves or society or another gender, because it's our birthright to experience life in whatever way we feel best suits us.
Work is a substitute religious experience for many workaholics.
Good judgement comes from experience. Sometimes, experience comes from bad judgement.
You may count on Mexico's support, since your commitment to the noblest causes of mankind and your vast experience are and will be invaluable in enabling us, together, to achieve a better world.
If you're working on a movie, you want it to be projected on the largest tapestry possible, and the sound to be perfect, and for that kind of communal experience of the movies to take place for it.
And I like to convey my feelings, my emotions, my experience, the information I have to public use, public opinion.
Certainly I've had the experience of thinking a person was one thing, and finding out they were another.
And then I went to 'Dawson's Creek,' which is a show that was, for better or for worse, all about the language. It was a word-perfect show, which I'd never had any experience with. And it was really shocking for me. I felt really hemmed in. At the time, it wasn't my favorite working experience.
I had the closest thing I have ever had to an out-of-body experience lying in bed one morning. I turned on the 'Today' programme and item four on the news was: 'The shadow chancellor has ruled himself out of the leadership.' I lay there thinking that's interesting, then I realised it was me.
It's been my experience that every time I think I know where it's at, it's usually somewhere else.
The utmost thing is the user experience, to have the most useful experience.
Our theory is, if you need the user to tell you what you're selling, then you don't know what you're selling, and it's probably not going to be a good experience.
Truth be told, I'm not an easy man. I can be an entertaining one, though it's been my experience that most people don't want to be entertained. They want to be comforted.
The wisdom of the wise, and the experience of ages, may be preserved by quotation.
We believe that Lebanon has been the first real experience for all the Arabs.
Today, the Iraqi citizen sees that America is coming and wants to occupy his country and kill him, and he is willing to experience for himself what happened in Palestine.
Putting is like wisdom - partly a natural gift and partly the accumulation of experience.
I have been blessed in many ways, and one of those is to have been born in Africa, for me a great treasure house of stories. I have been researching it since my infancy reading about it, talking to men and women who have spent their lives in this land, living it as I have and loving it as I do. I write almost entirely from my own experience.
I was thinking that we all learn by experience, but some of us have to go to summer school.
Past experience with fiscal austerity at home and overseas strongly suggests that it is best for the economy's long-run performance to restrain government spending rather than raise taxes.
It's really fun at night, because I can see the baby kicking. I can feel the knee or the foot. The baby is starting to get heavy, and it's a really incredible feeling. I'm so grateful I get to experience this.
When you go visiting countries, you start reading the history of the place and you start getting into the culture, and then you have to leave. In my experience, all countries have hidden treasures.
I've always loved the experience of working together with other people toward an artistic goal.
There are a lot of things that make up a performance, a lot of technical things. It isn't always just about pulling it up from the darkest recesses of your mind or your heart. It's your experience and your observation.
Once you're in a particular country, and you're surrounded by musicians who are so adept at traditional music, you suddenly realize how much there is to explore and digest and learn and experience.
Marimba is much more of a wood-type experience and there is no real possibility of getting a dry sound, and getting that contrast in the same way that you can in a vibraphone.
Now, having had this experience, I can't say really what they were looking for. I don't know their minds. But every time I see a reality show, it seems that the most entertaining parts on other reality shows are when they make their guests look foolish.
Women have no sympathy and my experience of women is almost as large as Europe.
An identity would seem to be arrived at by the way in which the person faces and uses his experience.
When something is new to us, we treat it as an experience. We feel that our senses are awake and clear. We are alive.
You know, my life's changed now. I'm starting to experience what people are really supposed to do. You supposed to be married. You're supposed to have a family, kids, treat your wife right.
The world is given to me only once, not one existing and one perceived. Subject and object are only one. The barrier between them cannot be said to have broken down as a result of recent experience in the physical sciences, for this barrier does not exist.
There are some things you only learn through experience.
On the one hand, we'll never experience childbirth. On the other hand, we can open all our own jars.
If you started in New York you were dealing with the biggest guys in the world. You're dealing with Charlie Parker and all the big bands and everything. We got more experience working in Seattle.
I feel like if I won an award and I was giving my speech and the music started, that's all I'd remember, the humiliation I felt when the music started. It would mar the entire experience for me.
I had decided I wanted to write about food, and I knew the only way to do that is to speak with authority, which meant learning the language and knowing what that experience is like.
The plain man is familiar with blindness and deafness, and knows from his everyday experience that the look of things is influenced by his senses but it never occurs to him to regard the whole world as the creation of his senses.
The experience is fundamentally different for buying from local businesses than it is for buying consumer goods.
You're creating an intimacy that everybody feels, that it's their experience, not yours. I'll never introduce a song and say, now this song is about 'my' broken heart.
You ask any moviemaker what their favorite movie experience was, and they'll say it was one of the first ones, where everyone had to pitch in and do everything together, and you had to struggle.
Being in love is the only transcendent experience.
I've had a lot of experience in independent film, and about how to choose. You've got to be very discerning about where you put your five bucks, and where you cut and what you don't cut.
Dramatic experience is not logical it may be subdued to the kind of coherence that we indicate when we speak, in criticism, of form.
So if I have two pieces of cake, do I have twice as good an experience as the first piece of cake? One of the things I've found in life is that the first piece of cake is the best.
Your own experience keeps taking you towards something. My book adds the hope that it's a better something.
My advice would be to write what is most personal and specific to your experience or your life. And your voice will emerge and because of its specificity, it will be universal.
Succeeding is not really a life experience that does that much good. Failing is a much more sobering and enlightening experience.
Also, I knew that the impact of Motorcycle Diaries was going to be so resonant for all of us who went through the experience of making it that I didn't want to do anything that could reflect it.
The course of the flight up and down was exceedingly erratic, partly due to the irregularity of the air, and partly to lack of experience in handling this machine. The control of the front rudder was difficult on account of its being balanced too near the center.
I loved making Pure Country. It was a great learning experience for me, seeing another part of the entertainment industry.
I've never had issues with popularity. I was always a popular guy... I've always had friends and loved ones and everything, so it wasn't like, 'Oh man, I gotta fill some void that was left by high school.' I had a great high-school experience.
I don't believe in the so-called Olympic spirit. I speak from personal experience. When China hosted the Games, it failed to include the people. The event was constructed without regard for their joy.
We are creating a unique experience. It's starts with how you see the building from a distance.
When you grow up in a family of languages, you develop a kind of casual fluency, so that languages, though differently colored, all seem transparent to experience.
My feeling about work is it's much more about the experience of doing it than the end product. Sometimes things that are really great and make lots of money are miserable to make, and vice versa.
Music and language are a vital element. We, as actors and directors, offer it to people who want to experience it. Sometimes the actual meaning is less important than the words themselves.
It is brilliant going to the theatre and being forced to sit and listen and think about life. It can be almost a near-religious experience.
And actually, about three weeks ago, Micky, Peter and I were in Vegas at the MGM Grand. And we did about 12 shows in seven days. It was quite an experience.
You want to do something that shows some type individuality and talent and imagination - at the same time, you want to be truthful to the predecessors, because obviously the audience liked something about them and you have to replicate that experience to a certain extent.
A man of conviction is often more to be desired than a man of experience.
You're working on being a father, so that is something that when you experience it you'll understand the profundity of wanting to protect something dear to you.
No student of Chinese history can say that the Chinese are incapable of religious experience, even when judged by the standards of medieval Europe or pious India.
The resistance of a woman is not always a proof of her virtue, but more frequently of her experience.
And so I think that if the person has the funds, the network, and the equipment to do this, and also the experience, which is the key factor, then they can be quite deadly.
We really haven't had very much experience with people funding their retirement out of the stock market, and we don't know, frankly, how it would work under every scenario.
For me, it is just the total experience - from the time I first started as an assistant coach until I wound up at the University of Texas for 20 years.
Louis Malle was the best filmmaker I've ever worked with. He was such an artist. He was dealing with the theme of innocence and experience.
But because we've all been readers, we know what the experience is like, and we hope that what certain writers have given to us, we will give to someone.
I will perform My Heart Will Go On for the rest of my life and it will always remain a very emotional experience for me.
I love music, and after my first experience with movies, I can't wait to do more.
Judgment comes from experience and great judgment comes from bad experience.
The most important training, though, is to experience life as a writer, questioning everything, inventing multiple explanations for everything. If you do that, all the other things will come if you don't, there's no hope for you.
Well, you know, the definition of second marriage is the triumph of hope over experience.
I am very happy since when I am in different cities I can experience and learn different cultures!
I'm always hoping for the nights that are inspired where you almost have an out of body experience.
At our best, it's a good experience but we do 22 episodes a year, so there are some clunkers.
I got pregnant at 40 by surprise. It's funny, because when we found out we were pregnant, I said, 'Okay, let's experience that.' You just have to just go with it because it's rare.
Many children are natural fantasists, I think, perhaps because their imaginations have yet to be clobbered into submission by experience.
Acting is not a mystery. There's nothing that I know that other actors don't know. We all act, we're all actors, we all know the same thing. The only thing that separates us is experience.
I feel responsible that everyone has a really wonderful experience and to do the best work possible, and to always know my lines and to always be on time and to bring a level to the show in terms of quality that other people will follow.
It evolved from my experience in the fifties, growing up during the McCarthy era, and hearing a lot of assumptions that America was wonderful and Communism was terrible.
Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure... than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat.
I can accept failure, everyone fails at something. But I can't accept not trying.
Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not nothing is more common than unsuccessful people with talent. Genius will not unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not the world is full of educated failures. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.
My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with your failure.
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
I've come to believe that all my past failure and frustration were actually laying the foundation for the understandings that have created the new level of living I now enjoy.
Do not fear mistakes. You will know failure. Continue to reach out.
Failures are finger posts on the road to achievement.
Every adversity, every failure, every heartache carries with it the seed on an equal or greater benefit.
Before success comes in any man's life, he's sure to meet with much temporary defeat and, perhaps some failures. When defeat overtakes a man, the easiest and the most logical thing to do is to quit. That's exactly what the majority of men do.
It's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure.
Ambition is the last refuge of the failure.
Don't be afraid to fail. Don't waste energy trying to cover up failure. Learn from your failures and go on to the next challenge. It's OK to fail. If you're not failing, you're not growing.
We have forty million reasons for failure, but not a single excuse.
One of the common failings among honorable people is a failure to appreciate how thoroughly dishonorable some other people can be, and how dangerous it is to trust them.
If you learn from defeat, you haven't really lost.
A man can fail many times, but he isn't a failure until he begins to blame somebody else.
Any fact facing us is not as important as our attitude toward it, for that determines our success or failure. The way you think about a fact may defeat you before you ever do anything about it. You are overcome by the fact because you think you are.
Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.
You are capable of more than you know. Choose a goal that seems right for you and strive to be the best, however hard the path. Aim high. Behave honorably. Prepare to be alone at times, and to endure failure. Persist! The world needs all you can give.
Do not brood over your past mistakes and failures as this will only fill your mind with grief, regret and depression. Do not repeat them in the future.
Remember that failure is an event, not a person.
You cannot climb the ladder of success dressed in the costume of failure.
Failure is not fatal, but failure to change might be.
Failure is not a single, cataclysmic event. You don't fail overnight. Instead, failure is a few errors in judgement, repeated every day.
When I was young, I observed that nine out of ten things I did were failures. So I did ten times more work.
Success is the result of perfection, hard work, learning from failure, loyalty, and persistence.
Failure is a detour, not a dead-end street.
There is no failure except in no longer trying.
Failure should be our teacher, not our undertaker. Failure is delay, not defeat. It is a temporary detour, not a dead end. Failure is something we can avoid only by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing.
I don't believe in failure. It is not failure if you enjoyed the process.
There is no such thing as failure. There are only results.
If you're doing your best, you won't have any time to worry about failure.
Success is often achieved by those who don't know that failure is inevitable.
A failure is not always a mistake, it may simply be the best one can do under the circumstances. The real mistake is to stop trying.
If you're not failing every now and again, it's a sign you're not doing anything very innovative.
Restlessness is discontent and discontent is the first necessity of progress. Show me a thoroughly satisfied man and I will show you a failure.
Winning is great, sure, but if you are really going to do something in life, the secret is learning how to lose. Nobody goes undefeated all the time. If you can pick up after a crushing defeat, and go on to win again, you are going to be a champion someday.
One's only rival is one's own potentialities. One's only failure is failing to live up to one's own possibilities. In this sense, every man can be a king, and must therefore be treated like a king.
It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might has well not have lived at all, in which case you have failed by default.
Achievement is not always success, while reputed failure often is. It is honest endeavor, persistent effort to do the best possible under any and all circumstances.
Show me a thoroughly satisfied man and I will show you a failure.
I really don't think life is about the I-could-have-beens. Life is only about the I-tried-to-do. I don't mind the failure but I can't imagine that I'd forgive myself if I didn't try.
I think you can have 10,000 explanations for failure, but no good explanation for success.
It is not because the truth is too difficult to see that we make mistakes... we make mistakes because the easiest and most comfortable course for us is to seek insight where it accords with our emotions - especially selfish ones.
To establish true self-esteem we must concentrate on our successes and forget about the failures and the negatives in our lives.
Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure.
Through perseverance many people win success out of what seemed destined to be certain failure.
Go on failing. Go on. Only next time, try to fail better.
Failure is a word unknown to me.
All that is necessary to break the spell of inertia and frustration is this: Act as if it were impossible to fail. That is the talisman, the formula, the command of right about face which turns us from failure to success.
Don't be afraid of missing opportunities. Behind every failure is an opportunity somebody wishes they had missed.
Every failure is a step to success.
You will be a failure, until you impress the subconscious with the conviction you are a success. This is done by making an affirmation which 'clicks.'
It's best to have failure happen early in life. It wakes up the Phoenix bird in you so you rise from the ashes.
The only failure one should fear, is not hugging to the purpose they see as best.
There is only one failure in life possible, and that is not to be true to the best one knows.
We failed, but in the good providence of God apparent failure often proves a blessing.
Success is not built on success. It's built on failure. It's built on frustration. Sometimes its built on catastrophe.
For every failure, there's an alternative course of action. You just have to find it. When you come to a roadblock, take a detour.
Success comes when people act together failure tends to happen alone.
They who have conquered doubt and fear have conquered failure.
Do not be embarrassed by your failures, learn from them and start again.
The season of failure is the best time for sowing the seeds of success.
The young think that failure is the Siberian end of the line, banishment from all the living, and tend to do what I then did - which was to hide.
There are some defeats more triumphant than victories.
It is wise to keep in mind that neither success nor failure is ever final.
All human actions are equivalent... and all are on principle doomed to failure.
Failure happens all the time. It happens every day in practice. What makes you better is how you react to it.
Indecision and delays are the parents of failure.
A person who doubts himself is like a man who would enlist in the ranks of his enemies and bear arms against himself. He makes his failure certain by himself being the first person to be convinced of it.
Do not blame anybody for your mistakes and failures.
If at first you don't succeed, failure may be your style.
Success and failure are equally disastrous.
Success isn't permanent and failure isn't fatal.
It is not a disgrace to fail. Failing is one of the greatest arts in the world.
Show me a good and gracious loser and I'll show you a failure.
The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure.
You gotta lose 'em some of the time. When you do, lose 'em right.
The only risk of failure is promotion.
We climb to heaven most often on the ruins of our cherished plans, finding our failures were successes.
Do not let your ambitions become a sanctuary for your failures.
A life which does not go into action is a failure.
I hate to be a failure. I hate and regret the failure of my marriages. I would gladly give all my millions for just one lasting marital success.
There could be no honor in a sure success, but much might be wrested from a sure defeat.
Success represents the 1% of your work which results from the 99% that is called failure.
A hatred of failure has always been part of my nature.
Success is never final, but failure can be.
Failure is always an option.
Often the difference between a successful person and a failure is not one has better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on one's ideas, to take a calculated risk - and to act.
Success breeds complacency. Complacency breeds failure. Only the paranoid survive.
Failure to prepare is preparing to fail.
Our failings sometimes bind us to one another as closely as could virtue itself.
It would be great to be able to pass on to someone all of the successes, the failures, and the knowledge that one has had. To help someone, avoid all the fire, pain and anxiety would be wonderful.
Don't be afraid of failure be afraid of petty success.
My life has been nothing but a failure.
You always pass failure on your way to success.
Never walk away from failure. On the contrary, study it carefully and imaginatively for its hidden assets.
I never see failure as failure, but only as the game I must play and win.
We may be personally defeated, but our principles never!
The world is divided into two categories: failures and unknowns.
I have probably purchased fifty 'hot tips' in my career, maybe even more. When I put them all together, I know I am a net loser.
Notice the difference between what happens when a man says to himself, I have failed three times, and what happens when he says, I am a failure.
Failure is a word that I simply don't accept.
The most important of my discoveries have been suggested to me by my failures.
Remember the two benefits of failure. First, if you do fail, you learn what doesn't work and second, the failure gives you the opportunity to try a new approach.
At least I have the modesty to admit that lack of modesty is one of my failings.
Before you can win a game, you have to not lose it.
I wasn't afraid to fail. Something good always comes out of failure.
Losing is no disgrace if you've given your best.
Socialism is a philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance, and the gospel of envy, its inherent virtue is the equal sharing of misery.
In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.
Think twice before you speak, because your words and influence will plant the seed of either success or failure in the mind of another.
Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.
I don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is trying to please everybody.
You build on failure. You use it as a stepping stone. Close the door on the past. You don't try to forget the mistakes, but you don't dwell on it. You don't let it have any of your energy, or any of your time, or any of your space.
Develop success from failures. Discouragement and failure are two of the surest stepping stones to success.
Failure is simply the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently.
The only real failure in life is not to be true to the best one knows.
Leadership is solving problems. The day soldiers stop bringing you their problems is the day you have stopped leading them. They have either lost confidence that you can help or concluded you do not care. Either case is a failure of leadership.
There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.
I honestly think it is better to be a failure at something you love than to be a success at something you hate.
Failure is success if we learn from it.
Defeat is not the worst of failures. Not to have tried is the true failure.
Success or failure depends more upon attitude than upon capacity successful men act as though they have accomplished or are enjoying something. Soon it becomes a reality. Act, look, feel successful, conduct yourself accordingly, and you will be amazed at the positive results.
It has always seemed strange to me... the things we admire in men, kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding and feeling, are the concomitants of failure in our system. And those traits we detest, sharpness, greed, acquisitiveness, meanness, egotism and self-interest, are the traits of success. And while men admire the quality of the first they love the produce of the second.
A little more persistence, a little more effort, and what seemed hopeless failure may turn to glorious success.
Success depends upon previous preparation, and without such preparation there is sure to be failure.
The fact that we are here today to debate raising America's debt limit is a sign of leadership failure. America has a debt problem and a failure of leadership. Americans deserve better. I, therefore, intend to oppose the effort to increase America's debt.
Like success, failure is many things to many people. With Positive Mental Attitude, failure is a learning experience, a rung on the ladder, a plateau at which to get your thoughts in order and prepare to try again.
A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.
As kids we're not taught how to deal with success we're taught how to deal with failure. If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. If at first you succeed, then what?
Failure will never overtake me if my determination to succeed is strong enough.
People in their handlings of affairs often fail when they are about to succeed. If one remains as careful at the end as he was at the beginning, there will be no failure.
Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another steppingstone to greatness.
Socialism in general has a record of failure so blatant that only an intellectual could ignore or evade it.
Once you start a working on something, don't be afraid of failure and don't abandon it. People who work sincerely are the happiest.
Never fret for an only son, the idea of failure will never occur to him.
Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.
Failure is the key to success each mistake teaches us something.
Failure is unimportant. It takes courage to make a fool of yourself.
My reputation grows with every failure.
Success is never final, failure is never fatal. It's courage that counts.
A failure is a man who has blundered, but is not able to cash in the experience.
Optimism is a kind of heart stimulant - the digitalis of failure.
Failure is simply a few errors in judgment, repeated every day.
The line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know when we pass it: so fine that we are often on the line and do not know it.
The majority of men meet with failure because of their lack of persistence in creating new plans to take the place of those which fail.
In America, there's a failure to appreciate Europe's leading role in the world.
No man ever achieved worth-while success who did not, at one time or other, find himself with at least one foot hanging well over the brink of failure.
Tragedy in life normally comes with betrayal and compromise, and trading on your integrity and not having dignity in life. That's really where failure comes.
Failure doesn't mean you are a failure it just means you haven't succeeded yet.
The Bush Administration's failure to be consistently involved in helping Israel achieve peace with the Palestinians has been both wrong for our friendship with Israel, as well as badly damaging to our standing in the Arab world.
Why should anybody be interested in some old man who was a failure?
So while I will never minimize the costs involved in military action, I am convinced that a failure to act in Libya would have carried a far greater price for America.
The theory seems to be that as long as a man is a failure he is one of God's children, but that as soon as he succeeds he is taken over by the Devil.
Failure comes only when we forget our ideals and objectives and principles.
There's always failure. And there's always disappointment. And there's always loss. But the secret is learning from the loss, and realizing that none of those holes are vacuums.
You must accept that you might fail then, if you do your best and still don't win, at least you can be satisfied that you've tried. If you don't accept failure as a possibility, you don't set high goals, you don't branch out, you don't try - you don't take the risk.
The guns and the bombs, the rockets and the warships, are all symbols of human failure.
I hate failure and that divorce was a Number One failure in my eyes. It was the worst period of my life. Neither Desi nor I have been the same since, physically or mentally.
In all our deeds, the proper value and respect for time determines success or failure.
A person who doubts himself is like a man who would enlist in the ranks of his enemies and bear arms agains himself. He makes his failure certain by himself being the first person to be convinced of it.
A man can get discouraged many times but he is not a failure until he begins to blame somebody else and stops trying.
There is but one cause of human failure. And that is man's lack of faith in his true Self.
If those committed to the quest fail, they will be forgiven. When lost, they will find another way. The moral imperative of humanism is the endeavor alone, whether successful or not, provided the effort is honorable and failure memorable.
There can be no failure to a man who has not lost his courage, his character, his self respect, or his self-confidence. He is still a King.
Every great work, every big accomplishment, has been brought into manifestation through holding to the vision, and often just before the big achievement, comes apparent failure and discouragement.
Fear stifles our thinking and actions. It creates indecisiveness that results in stagnation. I have known talented people who procrastinate indefinitely rather than risk failure. Lost opportunities cause erosion of confidence, and the downward spiral begins.
There is no failure except in no longer trying. There is no defeat except from within, no really insurmountable barrier save our own inherent weakness of purpose.
Sound character provides the power with which a person may ride the emergencies of life instead of being overwhelmed by them. Failure is... the highway to success.
Failure is not an option. Everyone has to succeed.
Destiny: A tyrant's authority for crime and a fool's excuse for failure.
Forget about the consequences of failure. Failure is only a temporary change in direction to set you straight for your next success.
Laziness is a secret ingredient that goes into failure. But it's only kept a secret from the person who fails.
No man is a failure who is enjoying life.
While it is important for people to see your promise you must also remember that hope is the keeper of both happiness and disappointment, the father of both progress and failure.
If there exists no possibility of failure, then victory is meaningless.
I'd rather be a failure at something I love than a success at something I hate.
No man can be a failure if he thinks he's a success If he thinks he is a winner, then he is.
Failure is not our only punishment for laziness there is also the success of others.
The failure of national economic policy is costing us more than jobs it has begun to weaken that uniquely American spirit of risk-taking, large ambition, and optimism about the future. We must rally them now to bold departures that rebuild our national morale as well as our material prosperity.
Why do I talk about the benefits of failure? Simply because failure meant a stripping away of the inessential. I stopped pretending to myself that I was anything other than what I was, and began to direct all my energy into finishing the only work that mattered to me.
I'm proof against that word failure. I've seen behind it. The only failure a man ought to fear is failure of cleaving to the purpose he sees to be best.
All human actions are equivalent and all are on principle doomed to failure.
Ideology, politics and journalism, which luxuriate in failure, are impotent in the face of hope and joy.
Not failure, but low aim, is crime.
In Torch Song, I did that character almost non-stop from 1978 until I made the movie in 1987. Then I had some failure, which also colors how you react to doing other things.
The idea of capitalism is not just success but also the failure that allows success to happen.
Creative risk taking is essential to success in any goal where the stakes are high. Thoughtless risks are destructive, of course, but perhaps even more wasteful is thoughtless caution which prompts inaction and promotes failure to seize opportunity.
They talk about the failure of socialism but where is the success of capitalism in Africa, Asia and Latin America?
Don't fear failure so much that you refuse to try new things. The saddest summary of a life contains three descriptions: could have, might have, and should have.
There are only really a few stories to tell in the end, and betrayal and the failure of love is one of those good stories to tell.
To begin to think with purpose, is to enter the ranks of those strong ones who only recognize failure as one of the pathways to attainment.
Failure is a great teacher, and I think when you make mistakes and you recover from them and you treat them as valuable learning experiences, then you've got something to share.
My fault, my failure, is not in the passions I have, but in my lack of control of them.
Failure is instructive. The person who really thinks learns quite as much from his failures as from his successes.
Success or failure in business is caused more by the mental attitude even than by mental capacities.
You may have a fresh start any moment you choose, for this thing that we call 'failure' is not the falling down, but the staying down.
My dad encouraged us to fail. Growing up, he would ask us what we failed at that week. If we didn't have something, he would be disappointed. It changed my mindset at an early age that failure is not the outcome, failure is not trying. Don't be afraid to fail.
He who risks and fails can be forgiven. He who never risks and never fails is a failure in his whole being.
Big companies are like marching bands. Even if half the band is playing random notes, it still sounds kind of like music. The concealment of failure is built into them.
A failure establishes only this, that our determination to succeed was not strong enough.
One of the reasons people stop learning is that they become less and less willing to risk failure.
My father was not a failure. After all, he was the father of a president of the United States.
Greatly begin. Though thou have time, but for a line, be that sublime. Not failure, but low aim is crime.
Mohammed was not an apparent failure. He was a dazzling success, politically as well as spiritually, and Islam went from strength to strength to strength.
No experience is a cause of success or failure. We do not suffer from the shock of our experiences, so-called trauma - but we make out of them just what suits our purposes.
The freedom to fail is vital if you're going to succeed. Most successful people fail from time to time, and it is a measure of their strength that failure merely propels them into some new attempt at success.
No matter how vast, how total, the failure of man here on earth, the work of man will be resumed elsewhere. War leaders talk of resuming operations on this front and that, but man's front embraces the whole universe.
I have a lack of fear, whereas in the past the fear of failure was a powerful motivator. Anyway, I have great expectations for the future, but I just don't know if I'm the monarch of all I survey.
War remains the decisive human failure.
Failure is only postponed success as long as courage 'coaches' ambition. The habit of persistence is the habit of victory.
If Liberia has failed, then, it is no evidence of the failure of the Negro in government. It is merely evidence of the failure of slavery.
Every adversity, every failure, and every heartache, carries with it the Seed of an equivalent or greater Benefit.
However things may seem, no evil thing is success and no good thing is failure.
There is not a fiercer hell than the failure in a great object.
We learn wisdom from failure much more than from success. We often discover what will do, by finding out what will not do and probably he who never made a mistake never made a discovery.
Success is not a good teacher, failure makes you humble.
Women, like men, should try to do the impossible. And when they fail, their failure should be a challenge to others.
Discipline is based on pride, on meticulous attention to details, and on mutual respect and confidence. Discipline must be a habit so ingrained that it is stronger than the excitement of the goal or the fear of failure.
The only real failure in life is one not learned from.
There is no loneliness greater than the loneliness of a failure. The failure is a stranger in his own house.
Keep in mind that neither success nor failure is ever final.
I'm hopeful. I know there is a lot of ambition in Washington, obviously. But I hope the ambitious realize that they are more likely to succeed with success as opposed to failure.
As I said there is nothing wrong with failing. Pick yourself up and try it again. You never are going to know how good you really are until you go out and face failure.
I read less and less. I have not forgiven books for their failure to tell me the truth and make me happy.
The point is not to take the world's opinion as a guiding star but to go one's way in life and working unerringly, neither depressed by failure nor seduced by applause.
Children love and want to be loved and they very much prefer the joy of accomplishment to the triumph of hateful failure. Do not mistake a child for his symptom.
It is often the failure who is the pioneer in new lands, new undertakings, and new forms of expression.
Often the difference between a successful man and a failure is not one's better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on his ideas, to take a calculated risk, and to act.
Failure is the condiment that gives success its flavor.
I have always been pushed by the negative. The apparent failure of a play sends me back to my typewriter that very night, before the reviews are out. I am more compelled to get back to work than if I had a success.
But while success and failure depend on conditions, the mind neither waxes nor wanes.
It's not necessary to fear the prospect of failure but to be determined not to fail.
Failure means a stripping away of the inessential.
We need to teach the highly educated man that it is not a disgrace to fail and that he must analyze every failure to find its cause. He must learn how to fail intelligently, for failing is one of the greatest arts in the world.
Don't think of it as failure. Think of it as time-released success.
Sometimes failure isn't an opportunity in disguise, it's just you.
Failure is authentic, and because it's authentic, it's real and genuine, and because of that, it's a pure state of being.
In high school, in sport, I had a coach who told me I was much better than I thought I was, and would make me do more in a positive sense. He was the first person who taught me not to be afraid of failure.
Crime and bad lives are the measure of a State's failure, all crime in the end is the crime of the community.
Whether in success or in failure, I'm proud of every single movie I've ever directed.
Failure has gone to his head.
Any critic is entitled to wrong judgments, of course. But certain lapses of judgment indicate the radical failure of an entire sensibility.
Belief in the supernatural reflects a failure of the imagination.
Man's sin is in his failure to live what he is. Being the master of the earth, man forgets that he is the servant of God.
If a building looks better under construction than it does when finished, then it's a failure.
Sometimes the best lighting of all is a power failure.
Most success springs from an obstacle or failure. I became a cartoonist largely because I failed in my goal of becoming a successful executive.
Young players need freedom of expression to develop as creative players... they should be encouraged to try skills without fear of failure.
I love Rauschenberg. I love that he created a turning point in visual history, that he redefined the idea of beauty, that he combined painting, sculpture, photography, and everyday life with such gall, and that he was interested in, as he put it, 'the ability to conceive failure as progress.'
This dullness of vision regarding the importance of the general welfare to the individual is the measure of the failure of our schools and churches to teach the spiritual significance of genuine democracy.
A real failure does not need an excuse. It is an end in itself.
The man who has done his level best... is a success, even though the world may write him down a failure.
Any man who has $10,000 left when he dies is a failure.
There is much to be said for failure. It is much more interesting than success.
You have to be able to accept failure to get better.
Please know that I am aware of the hazards. I want to do it because I want to do it. Women must try to do things as men have tried. When they fail, their failure must be a challenge to others.
Success is simply a matter of luck. Ask any failure.
The will to persevere is often the difference between failure and success.
Failure is simply the non-presence of success. But a fiasco is a disaster of mythic proportions.
I believe in trusting men, not only once but twice - in giving a failure another chance.
Within the U.S., the Obama presidency will be mainly measured by the success or failure of his economic policies. And here, I fear, the monstrous stimulus package with which this administration stumbled out of the gate will prove to be Obama's Waterloo.
The person interested in success has to learn to view failure as a healthy, inevitable part of the process of getting to the top.
The failure of academic feminists to recognize difference as a crucial strength is a failure to reach beyond the first patriarchal lesson. In our world, divide and conquer must become define and empower.
Women must try to do things as men have tried. When they fail their failure must be but a challenge to others.
Mass transportation is doomed to failure in North America because a person's car is the only place where he can be alone and think.
If we don't succeed we run the risk of failure.
Most of us spend the first six days of each week sowing wild oats then we go to church on Sunday and pray for a crop failure.
Ultimately, all human activities have as their goal the realization of happiness. Why, then, have we ended up producing the opposite result? Could the underlying cause be our failure to correctly understand the true nature of happiness?
I don't want the fear of failure to stop me from doing what I really care about.
Translation is the art of failure.
I've probably earned the right to screw up a few times. I don't want the fear of failure to stop me from doing what I really care about.
I cannot give you the formula for success, but I can give you the formula for failure - which is: Try to please everybody.
For families across the UK who are income-poor, but more than that, whose lives are blighted by worklessness, educational failure, family breakdown, problem debt and poor health, as well as other problems, giving them an extra pound - say through increased benefits - will not address the reason they find themselves in difficulty in the first place.
Not failure, but low aim is sin.
Failure is a part of success.
We know there is no such thing as freedom without the risk of failure.
Heaven knows that I have done all that a mortal could do, to save the people, and the failure was not my fault, but the fault of others.
Success is usually the culmination of controlling failure.
There are no mistakes, save one: the failure to learn from a mistake.
So many financial dreams are thwarted by the failure to act upon good intentions.
A minute's success pays the failure of years.
Who I am as a guitarist is defined by my failure to become Jimi Hendrix.
There's no right or wrong, success or failure.
That sense of failure, I don't know where people put it who don't write songs and aren't able to emote physically. It must go somewhere.
In politics, what begins in fear usually ends in failure.
If you're the type of person who has to fulfill your dreams, you've gotta be resourceful to make sure you can do it. I came out to California when I was 21, thinking my New York credentials would take me all the way. I came back home a year later all dejected and a failure.
I think you have to try and fail, because failure gets you closer to what you're good at.
Pressure is a word that is misused in our vocabulary. When you start thinking of pressure, it's because you've started to think of failure.
About the only problem with success is that it does not teach you how to deal with failure.
The main failure of education is that it has not prepared people to comprehend matters concerning human destiny.
It is a mistake to suppose that men succeed through success they much oftener succeed through failures. Precept, study, advice, and example could never have taught them so well as failure has done.
Success and failure are both part of life. Both are not permanent.
I want to swim in both directions at once. Desire success, court failure.
I was taught that to create anything you had to believe in failure, simply because you had to be prepared to go through an idea without any fear. Failure, you learned, as I did in art school, to be a wonderful thing. It allowed you to get up in the morning and take the pillow off your head.
The clearest explanation for the failure of any marriage is that the two people are incompatible that is, that one is male and the other female.
I have a tendency to sabotage relationships I have a tendency to sabotage everything. Fear of success, fear of failure, fear of being afraid. Useless, good-for-nothing thoughts.
Failure is impossible.
All war represents a failure of diplomacy.
Well, I think that there's a very thin dividing line between success and failure. And I think if you start a business without financial backing, you're likely to go the wrong side of that dividing line.
We need to accept that we won't always make the right decisions, that we'll screw up royally sometimes - understanding that failure is not the opposite of success, it's part of success.
Without failure there is no sweetness in success. There's no understanding of it.
But I look at failure as education. In that respect, I am so well-educated.
There is no such thing as darkness only a failure to see.
To harmonize the One with the Many, this is indeed a difficult adjustment, perhaps the most difficult of all, and so important, withal, that nations have perished from their failure to achieve it.
The failure of the White House and Congress to seriously address the nation's fiscal situation is certain to broaden the belief among many voters that the U.S. political system is broken.
Failure's a natural part of life.
I mean, I love L.A. - I love living here. But I wish that we could make things without the need to hit a home run every single time. It's a unique thing to Hollywood that if you don't do that every time, then you're considered a failure. But it's like, 'Well, are you making movies to be successful? Or are you making movies to learn something?'
I mean, I love L.A. - I love living here. But I wish that we could make things without the need to hit a home run every single time. It's a unique thing to Hollywood that if you don't do that every time, then you're considered a failure.
The exposed nature of life in the public square affects leaders' attitudes toward risk - and failure.
As long as the G.O.P., led by its increasingly visible women, continues to insist that the problem is not their policies but women's failure to understand their own lives and interests, the gender gap won't go away.
Failure sometimes enlarges the spirit. You have to fall back upon humanity and God.
Entrepreneurs are risk takers, willing to roll the dice with their money or reputation on the line in support of an idea or enterprise. They willingly assume responsibility for the success or failure of a venture and are answerable for all its facets.
The only failure is not to try.
I'm sure not afraid of success and I've learned not to be afraid of failure. The only thing I'm afraid of now is of being someone I don't like much.
I think failure is nothing more than life's way of nudging you that you are off course. My attitude to failure is not attached to outcome, but in not trying. It is liberating. Most people attach failure to something not working out or how people perceive you. This way, it is about answering to yourself.
With everything that is complex, we learn. If you don't learn, then it's an utter and abject failure. If you do learn, and you're able to apply that to the next situation, then you take away a measure of success.
I think some parents now look at a youngster failing as the final thing. It's a process, and failure is part of the process. I would like it if the teacher and the parents would connect more. I think that used to be, but we're losing a little bit of that right now.
The traditional religious right's failure to restore public-school prayer or pass an antiabortion constitutional amendment has likely helped fuel the spread of the more extreme dominionist school.
And in reality, I don't think it's a real documentary. It's more a story of her life. It's a story of survival. It's a story of the time in which she lived. The story of success and failure.
The failure of world leaders to act on the critical issue of global warming is often blamed on economic considerations.
Failure is more frequently from want of energy than want of capital.
I don't understand a way to work other than bold-facedly running towards failure.
We create success or failure on the course primarily by our thoughts.
Failure seldom stops you. What stops you is the fear of failure.
You'll never convince me there is a hopeless situation or there is any finality in any success or any failure.
You get so afraid of failure and so afraid of losing and so afraid of not being the best that it's not a natural drive - it's born out of fear of failure. Which helps in Hollywood.
With the NDAA, his failure to close Guantanamo Bay and the ramping use of drones, President Obama looks suspiciously like President Bush, a man on a quest for American Empire.
Failure too is a form of death.
Success is more dangerous than failure, the ripples break over a wider coastline.
Success needs no explanation. Failure does not have one that matters.
Fear of failure has always been my best motivator.
It takes two to make a marriage a success and only one to make it a failure.
I've tried to handle winning well, so that maybe we'll win again, but I've also tried to handle failure well. If those serve as good examples for teachers and kids, then I hope that would be a contribution I have made to sport. Not just basketball, but to sport.
If we don't succeed, we run the risk of failure.
I may be a successful football player, but I feel like such a failure.
If you get into a Broadway show and it doesn't work, you're a failure. And if it does work, you may be stuck for who knows how long. It just doesn't sound great to me!
I realized that I was afraid to really, really try something, 100%, because I had never reached true failure.
Failure to accord credit to anyone for what he may have done is a great weakness in any man.
I will not be discouraged by failure I will not be elated by success.
At first I wasn't sure that I had the talent, but I did know I had a fear of failure, and that fear compelled me to fight off anything that might abet it.
The mere thought of divorce terrified me. To me, divorce symbolized failure.
I feel, in the end, as if everything I've done has been a failure.
By far the most important factor in the success or failure of any school, far more important than tests or standards or business-model methods of accountability, is simply attracting the best-educated, most exciting young people into urban schools and keeping them there.
It's probably foolish to expect relationships to go on forever and to say that because something only lasts 10 years, it's a failure.
If you've gone into a marriage and you haven't been clear about how you're going to handle money, how you want to raise kids, who is going to work or stay home or what have you, then you've set yourself up for failure.
You can't have any successes unless you can accept failure.
Failure doesn't kill you... it increases your desire to make something happen.
It's a European Union of economic failure, of mass unemployment and of low growth.
The banking collapse was caused, more than anything, by bad government policy and the total failure of bad regulation, rather than by greed.
Failure in the theater is more dramatic and uglier than any other form of writing. It costs so much, you feel so guilty.
You have to look at the history of the Middle East in particular. It has been one of failure and frustration, of feudalism and tribalism.
Hollywood... a city I was to come back to time and again, in sickness and in health, in success and in failure, with anticipation and with dread.
I've had a lot of success I've had failures, so I learn from the failure.
The most tragic paradox of our time is to be found in the failure of nation-states to recognize the imperatives of internationalism.
There's a difference between a failure and a fiasco... a fiasco is a disaster of mythic proportions.
Life is so fresh, life is every day so new if we are fighting, only for the best. Sometimes I think the only real satisfaction in life is failure, failure in your endeavor to do your best.
Rather than viewing a brief relapse back to inactivity as a failure, treat it as a challenge and try to get back on track as soon as possible.
If you have a level of expectation in your life that you have to be a quote-unquote star, whatever that means, you might be setting yourself up for failure.
Unless we practice conservation, those who come after us will have to pay the price of misery, degradation, and failure for the progress and prosperity of our day.
Civilization is a failure. We need to think what we can do together in love and peace.
Enjoy failure and learn from it. You can never learn from success.
Failure is an enigma. You worry about it, and it teaches you something.
The failure of the system to deal quickly was attributable to Nixon's lying, stonewalling and refusal to come clean. So it took 26 months for the final truth to be known.
Nixon's grand mistake was his failure to understand that Americans are forgiving, and if he had admitted error early and apologized to the country, he would have escaped.
I failed the LSAT. Basically, if I had not failed, I'd have been a lawyer and there would be no Spanx. I think failure is nothing more than life's way of nudging you that you are off course. My attitude to failure is not attached to outcome, but in not trying. It is liberating.
Even when you have doubts, take that step. Take chances. Mistakes are never a failure - they can be turned into wisdom.
If you try to do your best there is no failure.
What is more comforting to the terrorists around the world: the failure to pass the 9/11 legislation because we lacked 'a majority of the majority,' or putting aside partisan politics to enact tough new legislation with America's security foremost in mind?
The failure to read good books both enfeebles the vision and strengthens our most fatal tendency - the belief that the here and now is all there is.
My only failure was the restaurant in Myrtle Beach. I kept it open for four years. It was in a tourist town, it was only busy four and half, five months of the year. But the bills kept coming all year.
I was never afraid of failure after that because, I think, coming that close to death you get kissed. With the years, the actual experience of course fades, but the flavor of it doesn't. I just had a real sense of what choice do I have but to live fully?
There is no middle ground in Hollywood you're a failure or you're a success. That mentality is wild.
It's not that we fly by the seat of our pants. We're not afraid of failure.
I find writing very difficult. It's hard and it hurts sometimes, and it's scary because of the fear of failure and the very unpleasant feeling that you may have reached the limit of your abilities.
I think success has no rules, but you can learn a great deal from failure.
My biggest failure is I have too many to talk about.
Some people will go to the opening of an envelope. They live their lives in the public eye and get off on it, they need it. They need that kind of adoration. If their name isn't in the tabloids once a week they feel like a failure.
Coming to terms with the fact that my marriage was a failure was devastating and very difficult.
I fear that our true motivation is about oil and our own flailing economy about the failure to destroy Al Qaeda and about revenge.
So it is in poetry. All we ask is that the mood recorded shall impress us as having been of the kind that exhausts the imaginative capacity if it fails to do this the failure will announce itself either in prose or in insignificant verse.
The man who has won millions at the cost of his conscience is a failure.
Even as far back as when I started acting at 14, I know I've never considered failure.
Well, I think it's too early to call Fallujah a failure.
The main reason for the failure of the modern medical science is that it is dealing with results and not causes. Nothing more than the patching up of those attacked and the burying of those who are slain, without a thought being given to the real strong hold.
You shouldn't be afraid of failure - when something fails, you think, 'What did I learn from that experience? I can do better next time.' Then kill that project and move on to the next. Don't get disappointed.
I'm fully aware that things that resonate and become real hits are the exception to the rule, so much so that I've wired myself for failure.
Before I was married, I didn't consider my failure to manage even basic hand tools a feminist inadequacy. I thought it had more to do with being Jewish. The Jews I knew growing up didn't do 'do-it-yourself.' When my father needed to hammer something he generally used his shoe, and the only real tool he owned was a pair of needle-nose pliers.
We all struggle with our failure to communicate and our failure to reach beyond fear to love people.
I don't have a fear factor. Well, not much of one. And I'm willing to risk quite a lot - as a comedian, you're always risking a lot. You're risking failure, especially if you're improvising and going on TV shows trying to make comedy out of thin air. That is quite a risky business.
We now live in a world where the only thing to have is success, but failure is marvelous. It's fertiliser, it's like living fertiliser, because you're forced on yourself.
I'm kind of a failure. I mean, I'll be honest. I'm successful in that I'm getting to work on great stuff, but I think I'm a failure in all the personal stuff that is most important to me.
I get asked, 'How can you have such failures in your films?' Well, what else is life about? There's some sense of constant failure in something. Humor gives you a distance from it.
African Americans make up about 13 percent of the U.S. population but comprise 32 percent of patients treated for kidney failure, giving them a kidney failure rate that is 4.2 times greater than that of white Americans.
Among all the tests President Obama faced in his first term, his biggest failure was climate change.
The failure to dissect the cause of war leaves us open for the next installment.
The higher the artist, the fewer the gestures. The fewer the tools, the greater the imagination. The greater the will, the greater the secret failure.
Divorce is so common and accepted in America that beating myself up over it may sound ridiculous. But I was raised to believe that divorce wasn't an option to me, divorce equaled failure. I wasn't able to change that equation until I found myself in the right relationship.
America traditionally represents the greatest possibility of someone's going from nothing to something. Why? In theory, if not practice, the government stays out of the way and lets individuals take risks and reap rewards or accept the consequences of failure. We call this capitalism - or, at least, we used to.
We're born with success. It is only others who point out our failures, and what they attribute to us as failure.
There's something to be said for failing. It's not the failure you feel, it's the failure that people project when something disappoints. You're back to ground zero, where there's no expectations, and that's where I like to be.
The biggest problem in my life is trying to be the kind of man that I want to be, the father that I want to be, and how to process the failure of my marriage.
I assume everything I do in life is gonna be a failure, and then if it turns up roses, then I'm psyched.
I was convicted of three misdemeanors of willful failure to file a form.
He who has conquered doubt and fear has conquered failure.
People in the business will stay with you through drugs and alcohol and divorces and insanity and everything else, but you have a failure, pal, and they don't want to know nothing about you!
Success is 99 percent failure.
If you're not a born-again Christian, you're a failure as a human being.
War is something Arafat sends others to do for him. That is, the poor souls who believe in him. This pompous incompetent caused the failure of the Camp David negotiations, Clinton's mediation.
The failure of the Russian Socialist Republic will be the defeat of the proletariat of the whole world.
Elegance is not a dispensable luxury but a factor that decides between success and failure.
Attempt something so impossible that unless God is in it, it's doomed to failure.
In tennis, it is not the opponent you fear, it is the failure itself, knowing how near you were but just out of reach.
I don't think there's any way it could have failed. We don't know failure in this band. We didn't know failure. We got to know it a little after awhile but at that time there was no such word.
When you experience a failure as a leader, don't hide it - talk about it. Your missed opportunity will encourage others to take risks.
Unwillingness to risk failure is always there, but it gets harder when you feel you have more to lose.
Admitting failure is quite cleansing, but never - pleasurable.
Los Angeles was an impression of failure, of disappointment, of despair, and of oddly makeshift lives. This is California? I thought.
If you're 40 years old and you've never had a failure, you've been deprived.
Taxation is the price we pay for failing to build a civilized society. The higher the tax level, the greater the failure. A centrally planned totalitarian state represents a complete defeat for the civilized world, while a totally voluntary society represents its ultimate success.
Once you can accept failure, you can have fun and success.
One must never assume that a character is sympathetic because of either the actor playing them or the fact that they're a lead. I think that's a recipe for failure, actually, because if they become unsympathetic, you lose your audience.
Failure? Scared to death of it.
I've always believed that it's important to show a new look periodically. Predictability can lead to failure.
I have always believed that it's important to show a new look periodically. Predictability can lead to failure.
My films seem to be about men's struggle with failure.
I don't want to feel like a failure to my daughter. She's the best thing I've ever done. Buffy - pretty great and all, but Charlotte's way better.
I'm not scared of anything in particular, but I am motivated by a fear of failure as opposed to a need to succeed.
I failed first grade, which is my biggest problem. You always feel like a failure, like you're stupid.
My story of success and failure is not just about music and being famous. It's about living and loving and trying to find purpose in this crazy world.
Failure is the most terrible thing in our business. When we fail, the whole world knows about it.
Outward failure may be a manifested variant of inward success.
Of course, Third World leaders love you. By ascribing third world ills to First World sins, you absolve them of blame for their countries' failure to advance.
I didn't fear failure. I expected failure.
I think I've always been somebody, since the deaths of my father and brother, who was afraid to hope. So, I was more prepared for failure and for rejection than for success.
In a sense it might even be said that our failure is to form habits: for, after all, habit is relative to a stereotyped world, and meantime it is only the roughness of the eye that makes two persons, things, situations, seem alike.
The attributes for entrepreneurs cut both ways. You need the ability to ignore inconvenient facts and see the world as it should be and not as it is. This inspires people to take huge leaps of faith. But this blindness to facts can be a liability, too. The characteristics that help entrepreneurs succeed can also lead to their failure.
I can't say I'm not grateful to have journalists writing about me as a genius. But I know it's not true. I'm not confused. I understand that success comes through a lot of failure and a lot of very embarrassing failure. People want to create the next Facebook, but they are too afraid to create the next Facemash.
Our educational system is not preparing people for the 21st Century. Failure is an essential part of entrepreneurship. If you work hard, you can get an 'A' pretty much guaranteed, but in entrepreneurship, that's not how it works.
Start-ups make so many mistakes that the challenge to identify the root cause of a failure is tough. But believing in your own plan is probably the worst.
Questioning the nature and implications of liminal instances necessarily involves failure, if only in the specifically technical sense of entering spaces where prevailing criteria of success scarcely apply.
There would seem to be a limit, even for an art preoccupied with boundaries and transgressions, beyond which a work reaches its breaking point and becomes an actual failure, a mere experimentation.
None of us is guaranteed against failure or corruption of any kind witness what's going on in the world in this moment, the follies of human nature and the failures of human nature.
In Iraq we must succeed. Failure is not an option.
Schools don't really allow failure and yet it's a valid part of any endeavour, not just writing.
Ambitious failure, magnificent failure, is a very good thing.
My Brat Pack buddies and I didn't exactly handle celebrity very well. Success at an early age is far more difficult to handle than failure.
With failure, you just try again.
Sadness is a super important thing not to be ashamed about but to include in our lives. One of the bigger problems with sadness or depression is there's so much shame around it. If you have it you're a failure. You are felt as being very unattractive.
We do not know, in most cases, how far social failure and success are due to heredity, and how far to environment. But environment is the easier of the two to improve.
The paranoiac is the exact image of the ruler. The only difference is their position in the world. One might even think the paranoiac the more impressive of the two because he is sufficient unto himself and cannot be shaken by failure.
All I can do will only ever be a faint image of what I see and my success will always be less than my failure or perhaps equal to the failure.
As might be supposed, my parents were quite poor, but we somehow never seemed to lack anything we needed, and I never saw a trace of discontent or a failure in cheerfulness over their lot in life, as indeed over anything.
But if you have a solid walk with the Lord, then you won't fear that failure.
When you're fearless, you take more risks because you're less conscious of failure or what can go wrong.
The success and the failure are not my concern, but His.
We do not realise that we are children of eternity. If we did, then success would be no success, and failure would be no failure to us.
Success is not forever and failure isn't fatal.
I find fault with my children because I like them and I want them to go places - uprightness and strength and courage and civil respect and anything that affects the probabilities of failure on the part of those that are closest to me, that concerns me - I find fault.
I hate how box-office failures are blamed on an actress, yet I don't see a box-office failure blamed on men.
As efforts to fix this failure at the Veterans Administration continue, I also intend to persist in demanding answers and action on the establishment of a new clinic to serve the veterans in North Central Washington.
How one handles success or failure is determined by their early childhood.
I think everyone shares a fear of failure - that you're only as good as your most recent collection. That's definitely a fear, but it's a fear that fuels me, that makes me want to work harder, that makes me take on more challenges.
Is anarchism possible? The failure of attempts to attain freedom does not mean the cause is lost.
When an action is once done, it is right or wrong for ever no accidental failure of its good or evil fruits can possibly alter that.
The difference between a beautifully made failure and a beautifully made hit is who you've got playing the leads.
In God's world, for those who are in earnest, there is no failure. No work truly done, no word earnestly spoken, no sacrifice freely made, was ever made in vain.
If I didn't have children, I think my life would be a failure.
Every book I've written has been a different attempt to understand something, and the success or failure of the previous one is irrelevant. I write the book I want.
We feel a lot of pressure about looking silly or appearing weak, whatever that means, or being a failure. You have to keep in your head: what's the worst that can happen?
I'm living life as best I can - but I'm not exempt from failure and making bad choices.
Failure, it is thought, is what sells, and what people want to hear and read about. I am not so sure.
There is an increasingly pervasive sense not only of failure, but of futility. The legislative process has become a cruel shell game and the service system has become a bureaucratic maze, inefficient, incomprehensible, and inaccessible.
I think I've failed every test I've ever taken. If there was a failure I would have been it.
I believe only in art and failure.
It's not a very high failure rate if you choose people that you really like the sound of.
Thoughtless risks are destructive, of course, but perhaps even more wasteful is thoughtless caution which prompts inaction and promotes failure to seize opportunity.
The failure in Ohio to have adequate voting capacity for the people who were registered and eligible to vote was an absolute denial of their right to vote.
It's how you deal with failure that determines how you achieve success.
This is true enough, but success is the next best thing to happiness, and if you can't be happy as a success, it's very unlikely that you would find a deeper, truer happiness in failure.
It's not about failure it's about trying something and risking something for attaining your goal.
Definitely, it's a fear of failure that drives me.
The great thing about baseball is the causality is easy to determine and it always falls on the shoulders of one person. So there is absolute responsibility. That's why baseball is psychologically the cruelest sport and why it really requires psychological resources to play baseball - because you have to learn to live with failure.
Americans, who make more of marrying for love than any other people, also break up more of their marriages, but the figure reflects not so much the failure of love as the determination of people not to live without it.
The failure of The Cable Guy impacted my career. I had to start writing and acting again.
No failure in America, whether of love or money, is ever simple it is always a kind of betrayal, of a mass of shadowy, shared hopes.
The key to accepting responsibility for your life is to accept the fact that your choices, every one of them, are leading you inexorably to either success or failure, however you define those terms.
The failure of Christianity in the areas west from Sicily was even greater, and was increased by the spread of Arab outlooks and influence to that area, and especially to Spain.
It is hard as an American to support the failure of American military operations in Iraq. Such failure will bring with it the death and wounding of many American service members, and many more Iraqis.
I understand the harsh feelings and sentiments from my opponents and their supporters because I myself have been defeated twice in my political life in the past and I understand very well it is hard to accept your own failure.
That's the conundrum of cartoon stripping, as opposed to political cartoons. When your anger is the driving force of your drawing hand, failure follows. The anger is OK, but it has to serve the interests of the heart, frankly.
Sometimes people call me a success for all the reasons that make me think I'm a failure.
We judged that a sudden, disorderly failure of Bear would have brought with it unpredictable but severe consequences for the functioning of the broader financial system and the broader economy, with lower equity prices, further downward pressure on home values, and less access to credit for companies and households.
Failure is unfortunately as common as success.
What we've got here is a failure to communicate.
You must not demand the failure of your peers, because the more good things that are around in film, in television, in theater - why the better it is for all of us.
In a crowded marketplace, fitting in is a failure. In a busy marketplace, not standing out is the same as being invisible.
So nevertheless, what I'm saying is that what one is - one's parameters are constantly narrowed by one's success, and my desire is to widen my field even if I risk failure.
I constantly experience failure in that my work is never as good as I want it to be. So I live with failure.
I'm very comfortable with failure. I'm very comfortable being the guy who disappoints people.
As soon as I did my first five minutes of stand-up I knew that I would rather be a failure at comedy than a success in marketing.
Philanthropic colonization is a failure. National colonization will succeed.
I don't need to be looking at every failure of government, I need to be looking where failure of government needs reform.
I think it's one of the main negative emotional ingredients that fuels show business, because there's so much at stake and the fear of failure looms large.
Well, the idea is that failure is an inevitable partner on the road to success and, if you're not willing to confront failure, you can never find out how good you are.
Beside every great success are the seeds of enormous failure. In every failure, there's the opportunity seeds of great success. They're not miles apart. So if they're that close together, and if you're really working, you're always gonna have that likelihood that something's not going to work.
Our failure to find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq thus far has been deeply troubling, and our intelligence-gathering process needs thorough and unbiased investigation.
The very reasons sometimes that you make a film are the reasons for its failure.
Feminism is doomed to failure because it is based on an attempt to repeal and restructure human nature.
The only reason my work seems to be eclectic up to a certain period is because I was a failure as an actor.
Foreign aid is neither a failure nor a panacea. It is, instead, an important tool of American policy that can serve the interests of the United States and the world if wisely administered.
I have never described the time I was in Doctor Who as anything except a kind of ecstatic success, but all the rest has been rather a muddle and a disappointment. Compared to Doctor Who, it has been an outrageous failure really - it's so boring.
I'd like to see much more understanding of emotional issues around hurt, abandonment, disappointment, longing, failure and shame, where they stem from and how they drive people and policies brought into public discourse.
I met Ashley two weeks before I married him. It was a joke-the most ridiculous thing I've ever done. Once I was married, I didn't want to be a failure, so I stuck it out for six months, which was about six months too long.
Their lives have been largely defined by failure and you would think the prospect of marriage, which is supposed to be bountiful and hopeful, it's just really another kind of tangential thing in his life.
But all actors go through the process, it's hit and miss, you have achievement and failure.
Some of the reasons John McCain lost in 2008 were his lackluster campaign, his refusal to showcase Obama's extreme liberalism and, thus, his failure to demonstrate why he would make a better president than Obama.
So I try not to have any actual expectations for myself for any level of success or failure.
A Failure in this Duty did once involve our Nation in all the Horrors of Rebellion and Civil War.
Students rarely disappoint teachers who assure them in advance that they are doomed to failure.
Success is a public affair. Failure is a private funeral.
Washington, D.C. is what is broken, not the immigration policies. We have good laws. We have people suffer every day because of government's failure to enforce the law and be respectful to the process we have. We have a pathway to citizenship already in place.
The one phrase you can use is that success has a thousand fathers, and failure is an orphan.
One of the biggest problems with the modern feminist movement is its failure to bring men along with us.
You can't be afraid of failure and you can't be afraid of success, because either one gets in the way of your work.
So the poet, who wants to be something that he cannot be, and is a failure in plain life, makes up fictitious versions of his predicament that are interesting even to other persons because nobody is a perfect automobile salesman.
We have actually experienced in recent months a dramatic demonstration of an unprecedented intelligence failure, perhaps the most significant intelligence failure in the history of the United States.
I think that failure by your own standards is certainly a form of success.
Before this government came to power, many failing schools were simply allowed to drift on in a pattern of continuing failure. The government is determined to break that pattern and is successfully doing so.
I saw why people died and how they died. I saw gunshot wounds and liver failure. It was a good learning experience, so I came regularly on weekends and holidays.
The pressures are intense, because the rewards for success and the penalty for failure are more and more.
My failure, during the first five or six years of my art training, to get set in the right direction, and the disappointment which it caused me, drove me the more persistently into writing as an alternative.
I've had great success and I've had catastrophic failure. It's really how you handle the rough stuff that defines you, I think.
Failure to properly control our borders costs citizens in many ways: schools become overcrowded, medical resources are stretched too thin, other government services are overtaxed, and taxes increase further.
Failure and things of this sort - you can take it one of two ways. You can either let that hurt you and really affect the way that you live your life in the future, or you can use that as an opportunity for growth.
What we have most to fear is failure of the heart.
Nothing succeeds, they say, like success. And certainly nothing fails like failure.
War, except in self-defense, is a failure of moral imagination.
I think there's something quite interesting about the almost tragic quality of a lot of overwrought prose, because it has a much more self-conscious awareness of its own failure to touch the real.
I don't know many people, if any, who have had some straight line toward success. I mean, they start here, they work hard, they've got what it takes, and they just go straight to the top over some number of years. Most people get a little failure.
Pharmaceutical companies are enjoying unprecedented profits and access with this Administration. Yet the Republicans' prescription drug plan for seniors has been a colossal failure, and over 43 million Americans wake up every morning without health insurance.
The reason was the failure of both Japan and China to understand each other and the inability of America and the European powers to sympathize, without prejudice, with the peoples of East Asia.
There's no such thing as failure - just waiting for success.
The carrying out of the Potsdam Agreement has, however, been obstructed by the failure of the Allied Control Council to take the necessary steps to enable the German economy to function as an economic unit.
Our system provides for a winner to take office on January 20th, and he is expected to take command of the ship of state. Failure to do so, characterized by hesitation and indecision, will harm the national interest.
We go there with confidence, but we know there is a very fine line between success and failure in this game.
The moral turpitude of the boys of today appears to center in their failure to concentrate on any particular objective long enough to obtain their maximum results.
War is failure of diplomacy.
If we do not get No Child Left Behind right for Limited English Proficient students, the law will be a failure for most schools in the 15th Congressional District, and for many across the nation.
Failure is what we're all running from, we're always running toward success with failure at our back.
I feel that 'The Great Failure' is really a book written out of great love and a willingness to face all of who a human being is.
The rise of China as a new power is another great challenge for the US. Our failure to properly handle Germany and Japan earlier in the 20th century cost us and the world dearly. We must not make this same mistake with China.
Our failure to properly deal with Germany and Japan early cost the world dearly later on. We dare not make the same mistake with China.
I was brought up to believe that there is no such thing as failure as long as I'm trying my best. So I've had a 'blood, guts and glory' approach through my whole life.
Well, I think first of all there was a failure to have real, clear information at our disposal. There was a real lack of situational awareness. We didn't have the capabilities on the ground to give us real-time, accurate assessments of the physical condition of the city.
My big philosophy is: Try and work with good people, because the process is your life. That's going to be really, really hard. I'm glad I learned the lesson, 'Failure is OK.'
I wish I had been more prepared, both for success and for failure, when I was younger.
You can be discouraged by failure, or you can learn from it. So go ahead and make mistakes, make all you can. Because, remember that's where you'll find success - on the far side of failure.
But if you look at WorldCom, which is the biggest failure to date, they grew dramatically, they were buying companies that were bigger than they were and they were doing it off inflated stock.
There comes a point in your moviegoing life where you look at the screen and then you look at the world and you ask, 'What is going on?' You want the movies to show you the chaos and mess and risk and failure that are normal for a lot of us. Generally, the movies hide all of that.
Jobs for every American is doomed to failure because of modern automation and production. We ought to recognize it and create an income-maintenance system so every single American has the dignity and the wherewithal for shelter, basic food, and medical care. I'm talking about welfare for all. Without it, you're going to have warfare for all.
To begin to think with purpose, is to enter the ranks of those strong ones who only recognize failure as one of the pathways to attainment.
I think somehow you need to get to a certain point in your life where the notion of failure is absurd.
Don't come home a failure.
The greatest failure is that although we have created institutions, we have not created a civil society.
I've become a professional failure - in order to pay the mortgage I have to remain unemployed. Luckily, a disaster always seems to befall me at exactly the right moment.
America thinks of itself as a meritocracy, so people have more respect for success and more contempt for failure.
In Britain, by contrast, we still think that class plays a part in determining a person's life chances, so we're less inclined to celebrate success and less inclined to condemn failure. The upshot is that it's much easier to be a failure in Britain than it is in America.
Critics? Don't talk to me of critics! You think some jackanapes journalist, his soul eaten away by the maggots of jealousy and failure, has anything worthwhile to say of art? I don't.
Success is always less funny than failure.
Most employees want to be involved in a successful business and most employees are happy for people running successful businesses to be paid a reasonable wage and a market rate for it, provided they understand the reason. What they hate most of all is pay for failure.
His advice to me is basically to just love what you do and don't let the fear of failure stop you.
The hippy movement was a failure.
Acting allows me the freedom to let go, to be in the moment, to be spontaneous. I no longer have the fear of losing, of failure.
There was a failure to recognize the deep problems in AI for instance, those captured in Blocks World. The people building physical robots learned nothing.
Twenty million more have Chronic Kidney Disease, where patients experience a gradual deterioration of kidney function, the end result of which is kidney failure.
I've always embraced failure as a noble pursuit. It allows you to be anti whatever anyone wants you to be, and to break all the rules.
Art school had taught me it was far better to be a flamboyant failure than any kind of benign success.
What matters is this: Being fearless of failure arms you to break the rules. In doing so, you may change the culture and just possibly, for a moment, change life itself.
Everyone should be commended for allowing people to make disasters, to make failures - you've just got to be sure that it's a magnificent failure and that, by creating a magnificent failure, you plant the seed.
It is Basic Management 101 that if you reward failure you are going to get more failure, and if you want success you should reward success. But if you look at the way this administration has approached national security, they have kind of got that principle backwards.
The failure of the United Nations - My failure is maybe, in retrospective, that I was not enough aggressive with the members of the Security Council.
I - and I still consider myself, I'm sorry to tell you, a Marxist and a Communist, but I couldn't help noticing how all the best Marxist analyses are always analyses of a failure.
Is the proposed operation likely to succeed? What might the consequences of failure? Is it in the realm of practicability in terms of material and supplies?
My work ethic came from my parents and my fear of failure. I came from a small, predominantly black school and I didn't want to let them down.
I think he Oswald felt he was a failure and for the United States and for President Kennedy and all of us. He knew he was a failure at everything he tried, frustrated, with a very sad life, but he was a Marxist.
If you're a doctor or a lawyer or teacher, if you only get three things right out of 10, you're considered a failure.
A film's success or failure is strictly on the director's shoulders.
Other countries, such as Israel, successfully employ behavior detection techniques at their airports, but the bloated, ineffective bureaucracy of TSA has produced another security failure for U.S. transportation systems.
Failure is nature's plan to prepare you for great responsibilities.
This attempt to isolate cell constituents might have been a failure if they had been destroyed by the relative brutality of the technique employed. But this did not happen.
Having in my life been bitten by the jaws of both victory and defeat, I must rush to add that success is to failure as butter pecan ice cream is to death.
But thankfully, my first album, 'Wide Screen,' was sort of a critics' darling - everyone raved about it, but no one bought it. They only manufactured 10,000 copies I wasn't even in the running for failure!
It must not be forgotten in fairness to the National Government that apartheid is not just a policy of oppression but an attempt - in my opinion an attempt doomed to failure - to find an alternative to a policy of racial integration which is fair to both white and black.
Catastrophes are often stimulated by the failure to feel the emergence of a domain, and so what cannot be felt in the imagination is experienced as embodied sensation in the catastrophe.
America's most dangerous diseases have developed an immunity to politics. We suffer not from a failure of political organization or power, but a failure of love.
Failure's not a bad thing. It builds character. It makes you stronger.
A love of nature is a consolation against failure.
With improvisation, I just do it. It might be a total failure but then you just throw the dice again.
It has always felt like a failure that Bjorn and I couldn't keep our family together. You never get it back, but to this day I don't regret splitting up. The reason behind our separation is one of those things I definitely don't want to go into!
I made a very conscious effort to finish 'The Cypress House' before 'So Cold the River' launched, because I thought that would help build a buffer between my writing and any impact that came from either the success or the failure of that first book.
The failure of women to have reached positions of leadership has been due in large part to social and professional discrimination.
The failure of Socialism since 1945 is that whilst encouraging us all, the creators of wealth, to produce less through strikes, it has caused us all to demand a higher level of our own product.
By virtually any measure, the record of the Republican Majority is an appalling failure.
Directly after the show people might have responded better to it, but who really knows. It did what it did and while it seems like a failure to most but it was a success for me and has given me so many opportunities.
Everybody keeps saying that India's a poor country. Yes, we have poverty. But I blame the government of India, the political establishment, for their failure to educate and therefore their failure to control the poverty.
Failure is good. It's fertilizer. Everything I've learned about coaching, I've learned from making mistakes.
The fear of failure is so great, it is no wonder that the desire to do right by one's children has led to a whole library of books offering advice on how to raise them.
I think you can learn as much from success as you can from failure.
The vast majority of large scale change efforts fail. Which means that the probability that you have actually experienced a failure, and your people know that and are pessimistic, therefore, about trying something again, is very high.
I believe my publisher has shown a great deal of faith in me over a lot of years but I'm not prepared to be so arrogant to say that the long-term literary value of my work would compensate them for a financial failure.
Fear comes in two packages fear of failure, and sometimes, fear of success.
But whatever my failure, I have this thing to remember - that I was a pioneer in my profession, just as my grandfathers were in theirs, in that I was the first man in this section to earn his living as a writer.
Has Bill Clinton inspired idealism in the young, as he himself was inspired by John F. Kennedy? Or has he actually reduced their idealism? Surely part of the answer lies in Clinton's personal moral lapse with Monica Lewinsky. But more important was his sin of omission - his failure to embrace a moral cause beyond popularity.
You cannot learn anything from success, you only learn from failure.
If you don't accept failure as a possibility, you don't set high goals, you don't branch out, you don't try - you don't take the risk.
We can't have a failure in Iraq, but we also can't be there for the next 10 years because if we are, it's going to become, I think, a failure in and of itself.
The time I had waited probably made the difference between success and failure.
In our tabulation of psychoanalytic results, we have classed those who stopped treatment together with those not improved. This appears to be reasonable a patient who fails to finish his treatment, and is not improved, is surely a therapeutic failure.
The more control you have over your life, the more responsible you feel for your own success - or failure.
I'm fascinated by failure, and I'm fascinated by finality. Shakespeare's historical plays are more universal than his comedies because they relate to the finality of life. Without finality, life would not be beautiful.
Most of the work performed by a development engineer results in failure.
Our nation's Social Security Trust Fund is depleting at an alarming rate, and failure to implement immediate reforms endangers the ability of Americans to plan for their retirement with the options and certainty they deserve.
And I went to New York and died for 10 years I walked those pavements. I can't think of New York without feeling uncomfortable and feeling like a failure.
I have experienced failure as a politician and for that very reason, I am ready to give everything for Japan.
To me, all war is failure for humanity, though it often is a bounty for commerce.
I know acts and I'm not going to name names but these people sold ten million copies the first time and the second album sells three million and it's considered a failure and they're dropped and that's really a shame.
Even in a gleefully negative comic, there is optimism, although it's slightly hidden: It comes out through a comic character's sheer tenacity. He keeps going and trying to find some sort of fulfillment regardless of his perpetual failure record. That's a form of hope, a form of optimism. Really hokey I know, but it's true.
Over the next four years, we will be bold. We will be willing to experiment. We will not fear failure.
Feeling is the consciousness of the resulting conditions - of success, failure, equilibrium, compromise or balance, in this continuous rivalry of ideas.
Ninety-nine percent of pilots that go up never have engine failure, and the 1 percent that do usually land it. But if you're up in the air and something goes wrong, you pull that parachute, and the whole plane goes down slowly.
Success breeds success, and failure leads to a sort of fallow period.
I went to a motivational training course once, a course of self-discovery, and I found out after a week that my fear - it was not a fear of not being accepted - was a very violent fear of failure.
There is always time for failure.
It has now been over 7 years since Congress last raised the minimum wage to its current level of $5.15 per hour. Since that last increase, Congress's failure to adjust the wage for inflation has reduced the purchasing power of the minimum wage to record low levels.
You accept failure as a possible outcome of some of the experiments. If you don't get failures, you're not pushing hard enough on the objectives.
Successful entrepreneurs find the balance between listening to their inner voice and staying persistent in driving for success - because sometimes success is waiting right across from the transitional bump that's disguised as failure.
In the business world today, failure is apparently not an option. We need to change this attitude toward failure - and celebrate the idea that only by falling on our collective business faces do we learn enough to succeed down the road.
If 50 percent of your career is not filled with failure, you're not really successful.
Something is wanting, and something must be done, or we shall be involved in all the horror of failure, and civil war without a prospect of its termination.
Mr. Gonzales' failure to respond to questions legitimately posed to him by the Senate raises grave doubts in my mind as to his fitness to serve the people of the United States as their Attorney General.
In the different voice of women lies the truth of an ethic of care, the tie between relationship and responsibility, and the origins of aggression in the failure of connection.
At the end of the day I have always seen the end of my relationships as a personal failure. There is nothing ever pretty in saying goodbye.
The success or failure of a life, as far as posterity goes, seems to lie in the more or less luck of seizing the right moment of escape.
American democracy must be a failure because it places the supreme authority in the hands of the poorest and most ignorant part of the society.
It was an interesting question as to whether the BBC had a future in the digital world, and what form of market failure could justify the licence fee system.
The fact that The Bridge contains folk lore and other material suitable to the epic form need not therefore prove its failure as a long lyric poem, with interrelated sections.
Learning starts with failure the first failure is the beginning of education.
It's a failure of national vision when you regard children as weapons, and talents as materials you can mine, assay, and fabricate for profit and defense.
Most people think of success and failure as opposites, but they both are products of the same process.
I've learned to think in terms of having a long career. Actors can have very long careers that last until the day we die, but there will be moments when you'll feel like you're a failure or when you're disappointed in yourself.
The dream is real, my friends. The failure to realize it is the only unreality.
Why do we capital-N Nerds love Mars so much? Because it's beautiful, it's tough, it's buried in our mythic, childhood memories. It's covered with human triumphs but also with sad stories of failure.
Humanitarian missions are little different from any other public enterprise, diplomacy included, which is susceptible of misinterpretation by the public, hence ultimately of failure.
My film directorial career has been nothing but repetition of one failure after another!
We decided to try in vitro, because both Peter and I felt we couldn't handle another failure. When I miscarried after that, we had to come to terms with the possibility that this wasn't meant to be.
There is only one real failure in life that is possible, and that is, not to be true to the best one knows.
When I got Jacob's Latter, I was nervous because I felt I wasn't allowed to fail. I felt that they were waiting for one little failure and that would prove them right and I'd be,'out of there.'
A failure will not appear until a unit has passed final inspection.
The failure of women to produce genius of the first rank in most of the supreme forms of human effort has been used to block the way of all women of talent and ambition for intellectual achievement.
When I was about 15... I made my first attempt as a leading lady, and was, of course, a complete failure.
Fear of failure must never be a reason not to try something.
One failure is worth seven and a half successes.
Nothing fails like failure.
As a younger player, you always kind of play with that fear of failure.
Y'know, the real reason why I was such a failure in the sense of being unable to make any sort of a living was because I was really not motivated. I had no motivation.
I rise today to offer a formal and heartfelt apology to all the victims of lynching in our history, and for the failure of the United States Senate to take action when action was most needed.
I've criticized President Bush for his failure to use his veto pen. There's plenty of blame to go around. The question is how to solve problems. It's not bailouts. What made America great? Free markets, free enterprise, manufacturing, job creation. That's how we're gonna do it, not by enlarging government.
You have to risk failure to succeed. The important thing is not to make one single mistake that will jeopardize the future.
If you want to increase your success rate, double your failure rate.
The sentiments in Hawaii about Washington's failure of leadership are no different than the rest of the country.
Slowly the poison the whole blood stream fills. It is not the effort nor the failure tires. The waste remains, the waste remains and kills.
It breaks my heart to see these young, really talented bands getting chewed up into the system. I remember a time if you'd signed to a major label it was such a sell out! But now... unless you've signed to a big label, you're a failure now.
Our managers hadn't had that kind of success - the record company hadn't, we hadn't - and the feeling was that the next record had to be even bigger, and if it wasn't it would be some kind of failure.
With engineering, I view this year's failure as next year's opportunity to try it again. Failures are not something to be avoided. You want to have them happen as quickly as you can so you can make progress rapidly.
The assertion of failure coming from such persons does not mean that Mr. Mill failed to promote the practical success of those objects the advocacy of which forms the chief feature of his political writings.
I knew that there were several, among African-American leaders, who had been put out by me because of my failure or reluctance to endorse Sen. Kerry.
I simply don't believe in failure. In itself, it doesn't exist. We create it. We make ourselves fail.
I grew up playing sports. There is a clear line between success and failure.
At the root of many a woman's failure to become a great cook lies her failure to develop a workmanlike regard for knives.
I think our failure in the production of good town churches of distinctive character must have struck you often, as it has me, when contrasted with our comparative success in country churches.
And obviously, with hindsight now, now knowing what went on in the company, it would have been absolutely appropriate back then for us to have the chief executive of the company, most senior person in the United Kingdom, come and answer for the policy they were pursuing. And we ducked that, and frankly that's a failure of Parliament.
Sometimes you learn more from failure than you do from success, and in some ways it's better to have failure at the beginning of your career, or your life.
Divorce is never a pleasant experience. You look upon it as a failure. But I learned to be a different person once we broke up. Sometimes you learn more from failure than you do from success.
Testing leads to failure, and failure leads to understanding.
We are equally glad and surprised at Winston's return to office. It shows that he was built for success that he should have declined to withdraw and sulk over a superficial failure.
The road to success and the road to failure are almost exactly the same.
After that he turned to the question of invading England. Hitler said that during the previous year he could not afford to risk a possible failure apart from that, he had not wished to provoke the British, as he hoped to arrange peace talks.
In Washington, success is just a training course for failure.
Never permit failure to become a habit.
Failure is not a crime. The crime is not trying.
Failure and its accompanying misery is for the artist his most vital source of creative energy.
I had to succeed. Failure means I would have to be homeless again.
Educational institutes can no longer be prizes in church politics or furnish berths for failure in other walks of life.
There's tons of creative people in television that have one failure after another, and they just step up higher. I could never get over that. When I had a failure, there was no such thing as just getting over it.
Spend enough time around success and failure, and you learn a reverence for possibility.
Sometimes a noble failure serves the world as faithfully as a distinguished success.
It is commonly said that a teacher fails if he has not been surpassed by his students. There has been no failure on our part in this regard considering how far they have gone.
Ken Lay has, does and will continue to accept responsibility for the fall of Enron. He was the man at the controls. But failure is not a crime.
I think the greatest taboos in America are faith and failure.
Success and failure are greatly overrated. But failure gives you a whole lot more to talk about.
Don't take too much comfort in the fact that you're successful today because tomorrow could bring failure. There's no surety in life.
It really is impossible not to like him. His success was his failure.
Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure.
Failure is not fatal victory is not success.
There's only one thing that can guarantee our failure, and that's if we quit.
The Soviet Union did not achieve victory over the West, so was my information inadequate to help them to victory, or did it play no particular role in their failure to achieve victory?
Be faithful in small things because it is in them that your strength lies.
Faith is taking the first step even when you don't see the whole staircase.
Take the first step in faith. You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step.
All who call on God in true faith, earnestly from the heart, will certainly be heard, and will receive what they have asked and desired.
Before the throne of the Almighty, man will be judged not by his acts but by his intentions. For God alone reads our hearts.
That deep emotional conviction of the presence of a superior reasoning power, which is revealed in the incomprehensible universe, forms my idea of God.
The keys to patience are acceptance and faith. Accept things as they are, and look realistically at the world around you. Have faith in yourself and in the direction you have chosen.
Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.
God always takes the simplest way.
When you focus on being a blessing, God makes sure that you are always blessed in abundance.
Faith activates God - Fear activates the Enemy.
Faith is a knowledge within the heart, beyond the reach of proof.
If patience is worth anything, it must endure to the end of time. And a living faith will last in the midst of the blackest storm.
As your faith is strengthened you will find that there is no longer the need to have a sense of control, that things will flow as they will, and that you will flow with them, to your great delight and benefit.
God didn't make a mistake when He made you. You need to see yourself as God sees you.
God will never give you anything you can't handle, so don't stress.
A casual stroll through the lunatic asylum shows that faith does not prove anything.
Faith is the strength by which a shattered world shall emerge into the light.
Faith consists in believing when it is beyond the power of reason to believe.
Faith is to believe what you do not see the reward of this faith is to see what you believe.
God, our Creator, has stored within our minds and personalities, great potential strength and ability. Prayer helps us tap and develop these powers.
If fear is cultivated it will become stronger, if faith is cultivated it will achieve mastery.
Faith: not wanting to know what is true.
I gave in, and admitted that God was God.
We are never defeated unless we give up on God.
A man of courage is also full of faith.
Faith is not something to grasp, it is a state to grow into.
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls gives light in darkness, comfort in despair.
Every tomorrow has two handles. We can take hold of it with the handle of anxiety or the handle of faith.
Belief is a wise wager. Granted that faith cannot be proved, what harm will come to you if you gamble on its truth and it proves false? If you gain, you gain all if you lose, you lose nothing. Wager, then, without hesitation, that He exists.
We have one life it soon will be past what we do for God is all that will last.
Faith and prayer are the vitamins of the soul man cannot live in health without them.
He who has faith has... an inward reservoir of courage, hope, confidence, calmness, and assuring trust that all will come out well - even though to the world it may appear to come out most badly.
God enters by a private door into every individual.
Pray as though everything depended on God. Work as though everything depended on you.
In the affairs of this world, men are saved not by faith, but by the want of it.
Nor shall derision prove powerful against those who listen to humanity or those who follow in the footsteps of divinity, for they shall live forever. Forever.
Our faith comes in moments our vice is habitual.
The faith that stands on authority is not faith.
To one who has faith, no explanation is necessary. To one without faith, no explanation is possible.
Pray, and let God worry.
A faith is a necessity to a man. Woe to him who believes in nothing.
I am still far from being what I want to be, but with God's help I shall succeed.
Faith is a living, daring confidence in God's grace, so sure and certain that a man could stake his life on it a thousand times.
Be a sinner and sin strongly, but more strongly have faith and rejoice in Christ.
Faith is the bird that feels the light when the dawn is still dark.
We are twice armed if we fight with faith.
Belief in a cruel God makes a cruel man.
Believers, look up - take courage. The angels are nearer than you think.
In faith there is enough light for those who want to believe and enough shadows to blind those who don't.
Physical strength can never permanently withstand the impact of spiritual force.
God... a being whose only definition is that he is beyond man's power to conceive.
I have not lost faith in God. I have moments of anger and protest. Sometimes I've been closer to him for that reason.
If you have God on your side, everything becomes clear.
Faith has to do with things that are not seen and hope with things that are not at hand.
Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens.
Faith is not belief without proof, but trust without reservation.
Faith means belief in something concerning which doubt is theoretically possible.
Faith is deliberate confidence in the character of God whose ways you may not understand at the time.
Put your nose into the Bible everyday. It is your spiritual food. And then share it. Make a vow not to be a lukewarm Christian.
Faith is a passionate intuition.
Faith is spiritualized imagination.
Faith is not simply a patience that passively suffers until the storm is past. Rather, it is a spirit that bears things - with resignations, yes, but above all, with blazing, serene hope.
A wise ruler ought never to keep faith when by doing so it would be against his interests.
Faith and doubt both are needed - not as antagonists, but working side by side to take us around the unknown curve.
Have faith in God God has faith in you.
Faith indeed tells what the senses do not tell, but not the contrary of what they see. It is above them and not contrary to them.
God never made a promise that was too good to be true.
You were made by God and for God, and until you understand that, life will never make sense.
Faith in oneself is the best and safest course.
I do respect people's faith, but I don't respect their manipulation of that faith in order to create fear and control.
Ask those who love Him with a sincere love, and they will tell you that they find no greater or prompter relief amid the troubles of their life than in loving conversation with their Divine Friend.
I live and love in God's peculiar light.
Having a clear faith, based on the creed of the church is often labeled today as fundamentalism. Whereas relativism, which is letting oneself be tossed and swept along by every wind of teaching, look like the only attitude acceptable to today's standards.
God continues to work miracles in my life.
And the attitude of faith is the very opposite of clinging to belief, of holding on.
He wants you all to Himself to put His loving, divine arms around you.
To me faith means not worrying.
We can no more do without spirituality than we can do without food, shelter, or clothing.
Your faithfulness makes you trustworthy to God.
The only faith that wears well and holds its color in all weathers is that which is woven of conviction and set with the sharp mordant of experience.
The power of faith will often shine forth the most when the character is naturally weak.
Keep the faith, don't lose your perseverance and always trust your gut extinct.
Faith, to my mind, is a stiffening process, a sort of mental starch.
Keep your faith in God, but keep your powder dry.
Reason is our soul's left hand, faith her right.
A man filled with the love of God is not content with blessing his family alone, but ranges through the whole world, anxious to bless the whole human race.
Ultimately, blind faith is the only kind.
Man, I just feel blessed... I was in a situation where the only way I could come out of it was by putting my faith in God. No matter how good my lawyers were, no matter how much celebrity I had, everything was just stacked up against me.
Worry is spiritual short sight. Its cure is intelligent faith.
Faith is the very first thing you should pack in a hope chest.
What does God the Father look like? Although I've never seen Him, I believe - as with the Holy Spirit - He looks like Jesus looked on earth.
It takes vision and courage to create - it takes faith and courage to prove.
Knowledge is only one half. Faith is the other.
It is truer to say that martyrs create faith more than faith creates martyrs.
I hold that religion and faith are two different things.
My reason nourishes my faith and my faith my reason.
Love, hope, fear, faith - these make humanity These are its sign and note and character.
All that I am I owe to Jesus Christ, revealed to me in His divine Book.
We are a long time in learning that all our strength and salvation is in God.
I die the king's faithful servant, but God's first.
I seek a deeper truth, but I don't think I have to go to a building designated for worship to find it.
Faith is reason grown courageous.
Only faith is sufficient.
Faith is not a thing which one 'loses,' we merely cease to shape our lives by it.
No matter how old we become, we can still call them 'Holy Mother' and 'Father' and put a child-like trust in them.
My heart hath often been deeply afflicted under a feeling that the standard of pure righteousness is not lifted up to the people by us, as a society, in that clearness which it might have been, had we been as faithful as we ought to be to the teachings of Christ.
It was seldom that I attended any religious meetings, as my parents had not much faith in and were never so unfortunate as to unite themselves with any of the religious sects.
Fear is the denomination of the Old Testament belief is the denomination of the New.
Vision looks upward and becomes faith.
Faith is not contrary to reason.
I think the greatest taboos in America are faith and failure.
Believe in yourself! Have faith in your abilities! Without a humble but reasonable confidence in your own powers you cannot be successful or happy.
Always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself, do not go out and look for a successful personality and duplicate it.
Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence.
You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
The foundation stones for a balanced success are honesty, character, integrity, faith, love and loyalty.
Faith makes all things possible... love makes all things easy.
A small body of determined spirits fired by an unquenchable faith in their mission can alter the course of history.
If you have a particular faith or religion, that is good. But you can survive without it.
Lets have faith that right makes might and in that faith let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it.
Some people feel guilty about their anxieties and regard them as a defect of faith but they are afflictions, not sins. Like all afflictions, they are, if we can so take them, our share in the passion of Christ.
Trust is to human relationships what faith is to gospel living. It is the beginning place, the foundation upon which more can be built. Where trust is, love can flourish.
There is nothing that wastes the body like worry, and one who has any faith in God should be ashamed to worry about anything whatsoever.
My faith helps me overcome such negative emotions and find my equilibrium.
Let us be sure that those who come after will say of us in our time, that in our time we did everything that could be done. We finished the race we kept them free we kept the faith.
To love means loving the unlovable. To forgive means pardoning the unpardonable. Faith means believing the unbelievable. Hope means hoping when everything seems hopeless.
It's lack of faith that makes people afraid of meeting challenges, and I believed in myself.
Faith is an oasis in the heart which will never be reached by the caravan of thinking.
I have no faith in human perfectability. I think that human exertion will have no appreciable effect upon humanity. Man is now only more active - not more happy - nor more wise, than he was 6000 years ago.
Anyone who knows history, particularly the history of Europe, will, I think, recognize that the domination of education or of government by any one particular religious faith is never a happy arrangement for the people.
One of the things I learned the hard way was that it doesn't pay to get discouraged. Keeping busy and making optimism a way of life can restore your faith in yourself.
Faith... must be enforced by reason... when faith becomes blind it dies.
My family, frankly, they weren't folks who went to church every week. My mother was one of the most spiritual people I knew but she didn't raise me in the church, so I came to my Christian faith later in life and it was because the precepts of Jesus Christ spoke to me in terms of the kind of life that I would want to lead.
Faith, there hath been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them.
Have no fear of moving into the unknown. Simply step out fearlessly knowing that I am with you, therefore no harm can befall you all is very, very well. Do this in complete faith and confidence.
But for my faith in God, I should have been a raving maniac.
Nonviolence is the first article of my faith. It is also the last article of my creed.
Intolerance betrays want of faith in one's cause.
Fear of death makes us devoid both of valour and religion. For want of valour is want of religious faith.
Non-violence is the article of faith.
Non-violence requires a double faith, faith in God and also faith in man.
Unwearied ceaseless effort is the price that must be paid for turning faith into a rich infallible experience.
Only he can take great resolves who has indomitable faith in God and has fear of God.
To Follow by faith alone is to follow blindly.
The way to see by Faith is to shut the Eye of Reason.
I have great faith in fools self-confidence my friends call it.
We consider Christmas as the encounter, the great encounter, the historical encounter, the decisive encounter, between God and mankind. He who has faith knows this truly let him rejoice.
Observe good faith and justice toward all nations. Cultivate peace and harmony with all.
I began revolution with 82 men. If I had to do it again, I do it with 10 or 15 and absolute faith. It does not matter how small you are if you have faith and plan of action.
Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith.
Technology is nothing. What's important is that you have a faith in people, that they're basically good and smart, and if you give them tools, they'll do wonderful things with them.
If faith in ourselves had been more extensively taught and practiced, I am sure a very large portion of the evils and miseries that we have would have vanished.
There are many things that are essential to arriving at true peace of mind, and one of the most important is faith, which cannot be acquired without prayer.
The smallest seed of faith is better than the largest fruit of happiness.
Faith keeps many doubts in her pay. If I could not doubt, I should not believe.
Faith never makes a confession.
Believe in yourself, and the rest will fall into place. Have faith in your own abilities, work hard, and there is nothing you cannot accomplish.
It's easy to have faith in yourself and have discipline when you're a winner, when you're number one. What you got to have is faith and discipline when you're not a winner.
Faith is the great cop-out, the great excuse to evade the need to think and evaluate evidence. Faith is belief in spite of, even perhaps because of, the lack of evidence.
But the attitude of faith is to let go, and become open to truth, whatever it might turn out to be.
I don't have to have faith, I have experience.
To have faith is to trust yourself to the water. When you swim you don't grab hold of the water, because if you do you will sink and drown. Instead you relax, and float.
Anyone who is to find Christ must first find the church. How could anyone know where Christ is and what faith is in him unless he knew where his believers are?
Love, we say, is life but love without hope and faith is agonizing death.
Fear clogs faith liberates.
If you have no faith, you've lost your battle.
Christianity is not the faith of the complacent, the comfortable or of the timid. It demands and creates heroic souls like Wesley, Wilberforce, Bonhoeffer, John Paul the Second, and Billy Graham. Each showed, in their own way, the relentless and powerful influence of the message of Jesus Christ.
It's not the tools that you have faith in - tools are just tools. They work, or they don't work. It's people you have faith in or not. Yeah, sure, I'm still optimistic I mean, I get pessimistic sometimes but not for long.
Liberty cannot be established without morality, nor morality without faith.
Faith must trample under foot all reason, sense, and understanding.
It's not a faith in technology. It's faith in people.
Back of every creation, supporting it like an arch, is faith. Enthusiasm is nothing: it comes and goes. But if one believes, then miracles occur.
To insure the adoration of a theorem for any length of time, faith is not enough, a police force is needed as well.
Be courageous. I have seen many depressions in business. Always America has emerged from these stronger and more prosperous. Be brave as your fathers before you. Have faith! Go forward!
My parents shared not only an improbable love, they shared an abiding faith in the possibilities of this nation. They would give me an African name, Barack, or blessed, believing that in a tolerant America your name is no barrier to success.
A person is born with feelings of envy and hate. If he gives way to them, they will lead him to violence and crime, and any sense of loyalty and good faith will be abandoned.
Saving faith is an immediate relation to Christ, accepting, receiving, resting upon Him alone, for justification, sanctification, and eternal life by virtue of God's grace.
Faith is love taking the form of aspiration.
I forbid you, agnostic, doubting thoughts, to destroy the house of my faith.
People define Christianity differently. I think a large portion of our population are Christians, they're not all growing in their faith, they're not all active, but I believe that a lot of people believe in Jesus and believe that he is their Lord and Savior.
For love would be love of the wrong thing there is yet faith, But the faith and the love and the hope are all in the waiting.
You know, my faith is one that admits some doubt.
What I think is fair to say is that, coming out of the Republican camp, there have been efforts to suggest that perhaps I'm not who I say I am when it comes to my faith - something which I find deeply offensive, and that has been going on for a pretty long time.
Each party steals so many articles of faith from the other, and the candidates spend so much time making each other's speeches, that by the time election day is past there is nothing much to do save turn the sitting rascals out and let a new gang in.
Life's a fight. It's a good fight of faith.
If he have faith, the believer cannot be restrained. He betrays himself. He breaks out. He confesses and teaches this gospel to the people at the risk of life itself.
Keep your dreams alive. Understand to achieve anything requires faith and belief in yourself, vision, hard work, determination, and dedication. Remember all things are possible for those who believe.
Faith is permitting ourselves to be seized by the things we do not see.
Things can fall apart, or threaten to, for many reasons, and then there's got to be a leap of faith. Ultimately, when you're at the edge, you have to go forward or backward if you go forward, you have to jump together.
In a decaying society, art, if it is truthful, must also reflect decay. And unless it wants to break faith with its social function, art must show the world as changeable. And help to change it.
Reason is the enemy of faith.
Faith is the highest passion in a human being. Many in every generation may not come that far, but none comes further.
He that rebels against reason is a real rebel, but he that in defence of reason rebels against tyranny has a better title to Defender of the Faith, than George the Third.
Choose your friends with caution plan your future with purpose, and frame your life with faith.
It strikes me as odd that the free exercise of religious faith is sometimes treated as a problem, something America is stuck with instead of blessed with.
Faith is the sense of life, that sense by virtue of which man does not destroy himself, but continues to live on. It is the force whereby we live.
The children have been a wonderful gift to me, and I'm thankful to have once again seen our world through their eyes. They restore my faith in the family's future.
Only the person who has faith in himself is able to be faithful to others.
Faith may be defined briefly as an illogical belief in the occurrence of the improbable.
The meme for blind faith secures its own perpetuation by the simple unconscious expedient of discouraging rational inquiry.
No person I have ever met, not even the most righteous or pure of heart, has gone without those times when faith recedes in the busy-ness of life.
This President takes his inspiration from the capitals of Europe we look to the cities and small towns of America. This President puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people.
Men and women of every faith and good people with none at all sincerely strive to do right and lead a purpose-driven life.
I slept with faith and found a corpse in my arms on awakening I drank and danced all night with doubt and found her a virgin in the morning.
There is but one cause of human failure. And that is man's lack of faith in his true Self.
A library implies an act of faith.
We must not sit still and look for miracles up and doing, and the Lord will be with thee. Prayer and pains, through faith in Christ Jesus, will do anything.
Our faith is faith in someone else's faith, and in the greatest matters this is most the case.
Whatever universe a professor believes in must at any rate be a universe that lends itself to lengthy discourse. A universe definable in two sentences is something for which the professorial intellect has no use. No faith in anything of that cheap kind!
Faith, mighty faith, the promise sees, And looks to God alone Laughs at impossibilities, And cries it shall be done.
It is only by risking our persons from one hour to another that we live at all. And often enough our faith beforehand in an uncertified result is the only thing that makes the result come true.
Forgiveness is like faith. You have to keep reviving it.
To be an atheist requires an indefinitely greater measure of faith than to recieve all the great truths which atheism would deny.
Faith is the first factor in a life devoted to service. Without it, nothing is possible. With it, nothing is impossible.
There is nothing wrong with America that faith, love of freedom, intelligence, and energy of her citizens cannot cure.
Anybody who has been seriously engaged in scientific work of any kind realizes that over the entrance to the gates of the temple of science are written the words: 'Ye must have faith.'
Man must cease attributing his problems to his environment, and learn again to exercise his will - his personal responsibility in the realm of faith and morals.
If children understand that beliefs should be substantiated with evidence, as opposed to tradition, authority, revelation or faith, they will automatically work out for themselves that they are atheists.
Faith means living with uncertainty - feeling your way through life, letting your heart guide you like a lantern in the dark.
Faith: Belief without evidence in what is told by one who speaks without knowledge, of things without parallel.
No human race is superior no religious faith is inferior. All collective judgments are wrong. Only racists make them.
Not brute force but only persuasion and faith are the kings of this world.
Amidst the confusion of the times, the conflicts of conscience, and the turmoil of daily living, an abiding faith becomes an anchor to our lives.
In other words, a person who is fanatic in matters of religion, and clings to certain ideas about the nature of God and the universe, becomes a person who has no faith at all.
A great city, whose image dwells in the memory of man, is the type of some great idea. Rome represents conquest Faith hovers over the towers of Jerusalem and Athens embodies the pre-eminent quality of the antique world, Art.
It is the heart which perceives God and not the reason. That is what faith is: God perceived by the heart, not by the reason.
Love, like a chicken salad or restaurant hash, must be taken with blind faith or it loses its flavor.
No lover, if he be of good faith, and sincere, will deny he would prefer to see his mistress dead than unfaithful.
I had faith in Israel before it was established, I have in it now. I believe it has a glorious future before it - not just another sovereign nation, but as an embodiment of the great ideals of our civilization.
Only our individual faith in freedom can keep us free.
There lives more faith in honest doubt, believe me, than in half the creeds.
Faith is different from proof the latter is human, the former is a Gift from God.
A better world shall emerge based on faith and understanding.
Talk unbelief, and you will have unbelief but talk faith, and you will have faith. According to the seed sown will be the harvest.
Faith is much better than belief. Belief is when someone else does the thinking.
Practice means to perform, over and over again in the face of all obstacles, some act of vision, of faith, of desire. Practice is a means of inviting the perfection desired.
Faith is a state of openness or trust.
Politics is an act of faith you have to show some kind of confidence in the intellectual and moral capacity of the public.
If you desire to be pure, have firm faith, and slowly go on with your devotional practices without wasting your energy in useless scriptural discussions and arguments. Your little brain will otherwise be muddled.
Faith certainly tells us what the senses do not, but not the contrary of what they see it is above, not against them.
The parents have a right to say that no teacher paid by their money shall rob their children of faith in God and send them back to their homes skeptical, or infidels, or agnostics, or atheists.
I have an almost complete disregard of precedent, and a faith in the possibility of something better. It irritates me to be told how things have always been done. I defy the tyranny of precedent. I go for anything new that might improve the past.
I'm grateful to God for His bountiful gifts... He gave me courage and faith in myself.
It is a masterpiece of the devil to make us believe that children cannot understand religion. Would Christ have made a child the standard of faith if He had known that it was not capable of understanding His words?
Faith embraces many truths which seem to contradict each other.
We like security: we like the pope to be infallible in matters of faith, and grave doctors to be so in moral questions so that we can feel reassured.
Painting is a faith, and it imposes the duty to disregard public opinion.
Question: Why are we Masters of our Fate, the captains of our souls? Because we have the power to control our thoughts, our attitudes. That is why many people live in the withering negative world. That is why many people live in the Positive Faith world.
Duty cannot exist without faith.
No matter how corrupt and unjust a convict may be, he loves fairness more than anything else. If the people placed over him are unfair, from year to year he lapses into an embittered state characterized by an extreme lack of faith.
Blind faith, no matter how passionately expressed, will not suffice. Science for its part will test relentlessly every assumption about the human condition.
It is a great consolation for me to remember that the Lord, to whom I had drawn near in humble and child-like faith, has suffered and died for me, and that He will look on me in love and compassion.
When you're thirsty and it seems that you could drink the entire ocean that's faith when you start to drink and finish only a glass or two that's science.
Do I think faith will be an important part of being a good president? Yes, I do.
Faith and doubt cannot exist in the same mind at the same time, for one will dispel the other.
Faith moves mountains, but you have to keep pushing while you are praying.
I was very, very religious. And of course I wrote about it in 'Night.' I questioned God's silence. So I questioned. I don't have an answer for that. Does it mean that I stopped having faith? No. I have faith, but I question it.
Life is a battle between faith and reason in which each feeds upon the other, drawing sustenance from it and destroying it.
We have convinced over one billion members of the Islamic faith that we are prejudiced against their religion, that we would deny them freedom of religion, that we want suppress their culture and invade their governments.
A mission is a place where you ask nonbelievers to come and find faith and hope and feel love.
Faith is part of who I am, yes. I was raised Christian Scientist. The most important thing I saw every single week on the wall at Sunday school was the Golden Rule.
Faith is an aptitude of the spirit. It is, in fact, a talent: you must be born with it.
With faith, discipline and selfless devotion to duty, there is nothing worthwhile that you cannot achieve.
Faith that it's not always in your hands or things don't always go the way you planned, but you have to have faith that there is a plan for you, and you must follow your heart and believe in yourself no matter what.
Never be discouraged. If I were sunk in the lowest pits of Nova Scotia, with the Rocky Mountains piled on me, I would hang on, exercise faith, and keep up good courage, and I would come out on top.
Patience and Diligence, like faith, remove mountains.
Blind faith in your leaders, or in anything, will get you killed.
Faith consists in being vitally concerned with that ultimate reality to which I give the symbolical name of God. Whoever reflects earnestly on the meaning of life is on the verge of an act of faith.
The truth of our faith becomes a matter of ridicule among the infidels if any Catholic, not gifted with the necessary scientific learning, presents as dogma what scientific scrutiny shows to be false.
You can do very little with faith, but you can do nothing without it.
Faith - you can do very little with it, but you can do nothing without it.
What is faith but a kind of betting or speculation after all? It should be, I bet that my Redeemer liveth.
We can never learn too much of His will towards us, too much of His messages and His advice. The Bible is His word and its study gives at once the foundation for our faith and an inspiration to battle onward in the fight against the tempter.
When prayer removes distrust and doubt and enters the field of mental certainty, it becomes faith and the universe is built on faith.
Faith in a holy cause is to a considerable extent a substitute for lost faith in ourselves.
Faith is not believing that God can. It is knowing that God will.
People who believe they have the power to exercise some measure of control over their lives are healthier, more effective and more successful than those who lack faith in their ability to effect changes in their lives.
In the evening of life we shall be judged on love, and not one of us is going to come off very well, and were it not for my absolute faith in the loving forgiveness of my Lord I could not call on him to come.
For modes of faith let graceless zealots fight, His can't be wrong whose life is in the right.
At least the fundamentalists haven't tried to dilute their message. Their faith is exposed for what it is for all to see.
Bad faith likes discourse on friendship and loyalty.
By any reasonable measure of achievement, the faith of the Enlightenment thinkers in science was justified.
Although a man may wear fine clothing, if he lives peacefully and is good, self-possessed, has faith and is pure and if he does not hurt any living being, he is a holy man.
How many things we held yesterday as articles of faith which today we tell as fables.
The mysteries of faith are degraded if they are made into an object of affirmation and negation, when in reality they should be an object of contemplation.
Doubt is not the opposite of faith it is one element of faith.
Getting ahead in a difficult profession requires avid faith in yourself. That is why some people with mediocre talent, but with great inner drive, go so much further than people with vastly superior talent.
There are many talented people who haven't fulfilled their dreams because they over thought it, or they were too cautious, and were unwilling to make the leap of faith.
It is part of my faith as a Muslim to try to help those who are suffering from poverty or economic or political injustice.
I have no mystic faith in the people. I have in the individual.
The infinite faith I have in people's ability to understand anything that makes sense has always been justified, finally, by their behavior.
As a people of faith, we know that prayer is a powerful instrument. And as one Nation under God, we know that many times our most powerful tool is prayer.
If we were logical, the future would be bleak, indeed. But we are more than logical. We are human beings, and we have faith, and we have hope, and we can work.
The improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses to acknowledge authority, as such. For him, skepticism is the highest of duties blind faith the one unpardonable sin.
Nothing which is true or beautiful or good makes complete sense in any immediate context of history therefore we must be saved by faith.
Do not tell secrets to those whose faith and silence you have not already tested.
Writing fiction has become a priestly business in countries that have lost their faith.
Faith begins where Reason sinks exhausted.
Faith is what someone knows to be true, whether they believe it or not.
To disbelieve is easy to scoff is simple to have faith is harder.
In economics, hope and faith coexist with great scientific pretension and also a deep desire for respectability.
It's faith in something and enthusiasm for something that makes a life worth living.
The man of science has learned to believe in justification, not by faith, but by verification.
An Adult faith does not follow the waves of fashion and the latest novelties.
If you think you can win, you can win. Faith is necessary to victory.
For me, the peculiar qualities of faith are a logical outcome of this level of biological organization.
Even if a unity of faith is not possible, a unity of love is.
You all know that I have been sustained throughout my life by three saving graces - my family, my friends, and a faith in the power of resilience and hope. These graces have carried me through difficult times and they have brought more joy to the good times than I ever could have imagined.
Faith crosses every border and touches every heart in every nation.
Writing is an act of faith, not a trick of grammar.
Bid, then, the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine.
I never really had the classic struggle. I had faith.
If I advocate cautious optimism it is not because I do not have faith in the future but because I do not want to encourage blind faith.
A sublime faith in human imbecility has seldom led those who cherish it astray.
That willing suspension of disbelief for the moment, which constitutes poetic faith.
You cannot be President of the United States if you don't have faith. Remember Lincoln, going to his knees in times of trial in the Civil War and all that stuff.
Corruption is nature's way of restoring our faith in democracy.
Happy is the son whose faith in his mother remains unchallenged.
Religion is part of the human make-up. It's also part of our cultural and intellectual history. Religion was our first attempt at literature, the texts, our first attempt at cosmology, making sense of where we are in the universe, our first attempt at health care, believing in faith healing, our first attempt at philosophy.
Hold firmly that our faith is identical with that of the ancients. Deny this, and you dissolve the unity of the Church.
Basically, there are two paths you can walk: faith or fear. It's impossible to simultaneously trust God and not trust God.
Our society is illuminated by the spiritual insights of the Hebrew prophets. America and Israel have a common love of human freedom, and they have a common faith in a democratic way of life.
The difficulties we face originate from one of three sources. Some are sent to us by the Lord to test our faith, others are the result of Satan's attacks, and still others are due to our own sinful choices.
The separation of church and state is a source of strength, but the conscience of our nation does not call for separation between men of state and faith in the Supreme Being.
Is it faith to understand nothing, and merely submit your convictions implicitly to the Church?
Faith is an excitement and an enthusiasm: it is a condition of intellectual magnificence to which we must cling as to a treasure, and not squander on our way through life in the small coin of empty words, or in exact and priggish argument.
It's very important that every movie I do makes money because I want the people that had the faith in me to get their money back.
I think people who are creative are the luckiest people on earth. I know that there are no shortcuts, but you must keep your faith in something Greater than You, and keep doing what you love. Do what you love, and you will find the way to get it out to the world.
All that I say is, examine, inquire. Look into the nature of things. Search out the grounds of your opinions, the for and against. Know why you believe, understand what you believe, and possess a reason for the faith that is in you.
Let judges secretly despair of justice: their verdicts will be more acute. Let generals secretly despair of triumph killing will be defamed. Let priests secretly despair of faith: their compassion will be true.
There is greatness in the fear of God, contentment in faith of God, and honour in humility.
An atheist may be simply one whose faith and love are concentrated on the impersonal aspects of God.
Is he alone who has courage on his right hand and faith on his left hand?
I respect faith, but doubt is what gives you an education.
Workers have kept faith in American institutions. Most of the conflicts, which have occurred have been when labor's right to live has been challenged and denied.
To know a person's religion we need not listen to his profession of faith but must find his brand of intolerance.
If there was no faith there would be no living in this world. We could not even eat hash with any safety.
The man who radiates good cheer, who makes life happier wherever he meets it, is always a man of vision and faith.
If I were dying my last words would be: Have faith and pursue the unknown end.
Where there is the necessary technical skill to move mountains, there is no need for the faith that moves mountains.
Take away hatred from some people, and you have men without faith.
To 'choose' dogma and faith over doubt and experience is to throw out the ripening vintage and to reach greedily for the Kool-Aid.
Obedience is an act of faith disobedience is the result of unbelief.
Faith is the virtue by which, clinging-to the faithfulness of God, we lean upon him, so that we may obtain what he gives to us.
I've lost my faith in science.
What I learned growing up on the farm was a way of life that was centered on hard work, and on faith and on thrift. Those values have stuck with me my whole life.
I don't think that the total creation took place in six days as we now measure time. If we can confirm, say, the Big Bang theory, that doesn't at all cause me to question my faith that God created the Big Bang.
I believe that if we really want human brotherhood to spread and increase until it makes life safe and sane, we must also be certain that there is no one true faith or path by which it may spread.
I found a religion that blended scientific reason with spiritual reality in a unifying faith far removed from the headlines of violence, destruction and terrorism.
The first holy truth in God 101 is that men and women of true faith have always had to accept the mystery of God's identity and love and ways. I hate that, but it's the truth.
Action and faith enslave thought, both of them in order not be troubled or inconvenienced by reflection, criticism, and doubt.
The origin of the absurd idea of immortal life is easy to discover it is kept alive by hope and fear, by childish faith, and by cowardice.
Trust is not the same as faith. A friend is someone you trust. Putting faith in anyone is a mistake.
There's been some research in cognitive science, I'm told, that discloses that there have always been perhaps 10 to 15 percent of people who are, as Pascal puts it, so made that they cannot believe. To us, when people talk about faith, it's white noise.
Base souls have no faith in great individuals.
I looked at some of the statues of Jesus they were just stones with no life. When they said that God is three, I was puzzled even more but could not argue. I believed it, simply because I had to have respect for the faith of my parents.
Those who love him love that he sells the most art they take it as a point of faith that this proves Kinkade is the best. But his fans don't only rely on this supply-and-demand justification. They go back to values.
Between understanding and faith immediate connections must subsist.
Art requires neither complaisance nor politeness nothing but faith, faith and freedom.
I think there ought to be a strict separation or wall built between our religious faith and our practice of political authority in office. I don't think the President of the United States should extoll Christianity if he happens to be a Christian at the expense of Judaism, Islam or other faiths.
For this equilibrium now in sight, let us trust that mankind, as it has occurred in the greatest periods of its past, will find for itself a new code of ethics, common to all, made of tolerance, of courage, and of faith in the Spirit of men.
My gut feelings and my faith tell me that until God shuts a door, no human can shut it.
My faith helps me understand that circumstances don't dictate my happiness, my inner peace.
Faith Hill is a big role model.
Wal-Mart doesn't really care about your faith. Wal-Mart cares if you have money to spend, and it is going to be as generic as possible in exploiting the holiday season for every buck it can make.
People look at me and see a calm, cool guy on the sidelines and I want them to know that my Christian faith affects my coaching and everything I do.
An unexamined faith is not worth having, for fundamentalism and uncritical certitude entail the rejection of one of the great human gifts: that of free will, of the liberty to make up our own minds based on evidence and tradition and reason.
Let the people who never find true love keep saying that there's no such thing. Their faith will make it easier for them to live and die.
Look at the Afghans, during the time of the Soviet invasion. They were among the poorest Muslims in the world, yet they were sustained by their faith in God, and God alone.
Faith without works is like a bird without wings though she may hop with her companions on earth, yet she will never fly with them to heaven.
Our national motto is 'In God we Trust,' reminding us that faith in our Creator is the most important American value of all.
You just have to have a simple faith.
In religious and in secular affairs, the more fervent beliefs attract followers. If you are a moderate in any respect - if you're a moderate on abortion, if you're a moderate on gun control, or if you're a moderate in your religious faith - it doesn't evolve into a crusade where you're either right or wrong, good or bad, with us or against us.
Faith is an act of a finite being who is grasped by, and turned to, the infinite.
They are the weakest, however strong, who have no faith in themselves or their own powers.
Prayer is as natural an expression of faith as breathing is of life.
A person who has sympathy for mankind in the lump, faith in its future progress, and desire to serve the great cause of this progress, should be called not a humanist, but a humanitarian, and his creed may be designated as humanitarianism.
I had to learn my faith and look after my family, and I had to make priorities. But now I've done it all and there's a little space for me to fill in the universe of music again.
I wasn't with Joseph, but I believe him. My faith did not come to me through science, and I will not permit so-called science to destroy it.
Should doubt knock at your doorway, just say to those skeptical, disturbing, rebellious thoughts, I propose to stay with my faith, with the faith of my people.
And that's the great thing about living the Christian life and trying to live by faith, is you're trying to get better every day. You're trying to improve.
Look, I think Hispanic community - the values that resonate in our community are fundamentally conservative. They are faith, family and patriotism.
If you want to lose your faith, make friends with a priest.
Fight the good fight of faith, and God will give you spiritual mercies.
Hope, like faith, is nothing if it is not courageous it is nothing if it is not ridiculous.
Family and friends and faith are the most important things in your life and you should be building friendships.
If you put all your strength and faith and vigor into a job and try to do the best you can, the money will come.
All the strength and force of man comes from his faith in things unseen. He who believes is strong he who doubts is weak. Strong convictions precede great actions.
A witness, in the sense that I am using the word, is a man whose life and faith are so completely one that when the challenge comes to step out and testify for his faith, he does so, disregarding all risks, accepting all consequences.
Moderation is part of faith, so those who accuse Muslim schools of fostering fanaticism should learn a bit more about Islam.
I come now to tell you for what I am brought here to die, and to give you an account of my faith, which I shall do as in the sight of the living God before whom I am shortly to stand.
May it not be that, just as we have to have faith in Him, God has to have faith in us and, considering the history of the human race so far, may it not be that 'faith' is even more difficult for Him than it is for us?
Every life is a profession of faith, and exercises an inevitable and silent influence.
I don't know if the average person really has faith in Washington anymore.
In a mood of faith and hope my work goes on. A ream of fresh paper lies on my desk waiting for the next book. I am a writer and I take up my pen to write.
I've always thought that as long as directors and casting directors don't see me as just Harry Potter, I'll be OK. People have shown a lot of faith in me, and I owe them a huge debt. They're letting me prove that I'm serious about this.
And it's one thing to give people freedom and something else to deny the rights of Christians to assert their faith in order to keep Hindus from feeling upset.
Women have been taught that, for us, the earth is flat, and that if we venture out, we will fall off the edge. Some of us have ventured out nevertheless, and so far we have not fallen off. It is my faith, my feminist faith, that we will not.
I feel no need for any other faith than my faith in the kindness of human beings. I am so absorbed in the wonder of earth and the life upon it that I cannot think of heaven and angels.
If faith is lost, there is no security and there is no life for him who does not adhere to religion.
I have always been the kid who's asked 'Why?' In my faith, you're just supposed to have faith. But I was always like 'why?'
In America, now, let us - Christian, Jew, Muslim, agnostic, atheist, wiccan, whatever - fight nativism with the same strength and conviction that we fight terrorism. My faith calls on its followers to love one's enemies. A tall order, that - perhaps the tallest of all.
The other day the President said, I know you've had some rough times, and I want to do something that will show the nation what faith that I have in you, in your maturity and sense of responsibility. He paused, then said, would you like a puppy?
The principle part of faith is patience.
Society lives by faith, and develops by science.
Public confidence in the integrity of the Government is indispensable to faith in democracy and when we lose faith in the system, we have lost faith in everything we fight and spend for.
Obedience is the fruit of faith.
Faith which does not doubt is dead faith.
I see heaven's glories shine and faith shines equal.
The measure of a man is not how great his faith is, but how great his love is. We must not let government programs disconnect our souls from each other.
Faith is the state of being ultimately concerned.
To study history means submitting to chaos and nevertheless retaining faith in order and meaning.
The important things are children, honesty, integrity and faith.
The man who cannot believe in himself cannot believe in anything else. The basis of all integrity and character is whatever faith we have in our own integrity.
I am one of those who would rather sink with faith than swim without it.
We may not only find faith in God in our sorrow. We may also become faithful to Him in times of calm.
Each blade of grass has its spot on earth whence it draws its life, its strength and so is man rooted to the land from which he draws his faith together with his life.
An Adult faith does not follow the waves of fashion and the latest novelties.
Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.
I believe there are three keys to success. For me it is keeping my priorities in order: It's my faith and my family, and then the business.
Life is doubt, and faith without doubt is nothing but death.
The death of Pope John Paul II led many of different faiths and of no faith to acknowledge their debt to the Roman Catholic Church for holding on to absolutes that the rest of us can measure ourselves against.
A whole lot of us believers, of all different religions, are ready to turn back the tide of madness by walking together, in both the dark and the light - in other words, through life - registering voters as we go, and keeping the faith.
Faith is the ticket to the feast, not the feast.
The Christian faith can never be separated from the soil of sacred events, from the choice made by God, who wanted to speak to us, to become man, to die and rise again, in a particular place and at a particular time.
All great enterprises have a pearl of faith at their core, and this must be ours: that Americans are still a people born to liberty. That they retain the capacity for self-government. That, addressed as free-born, autonomous men and women of God-given dignity, they will rise yet again to drive back a mortal enemy.
You can judge the quality of their faith from the way they behave. Discipline is an index to doctrine.
Through hard work, perseverance and a faith in God, you can live your dreams.
The Bible is our rule of faith and doctrine.
Let me go over this again on the reclaiming the civil rights movement. People of faith that believe that you have an equal right to justice - that is the essence. And if it's not the essence, then we've been sold a pack of lies. The essence is everyone deserves a shot - the content of character, not the color of skin.
All is amiss. Love is dying, faith's defying, heart's denying.
My faith is very private to me. It plays an important part in my life, but I do not try and throw my beliefs at others. I have tremendous respect for all faiths and beliefs, but have a deep concern that religion and faith are currently a long way apart from each other.
For me, and I suspect for lots of other people too, bad things actually sometimes make you think more about faith and the fact that you're not facing these things on your own.
True faith is belief in the reality of absolute values.
The world will never have lasting peace so long as men reserve for war the finest human qualities. Peace, no less than war, requires idealism and self-sacrifice and a righteous and dynamic faith.
But every act in consequence of our faith, strengthens faith.
Those of us who were brought up as Christians and have lost our faith have retained the sense of sin without the saving belief in redemption. This poisons our thought and so paralyses us in action.
My father, who died a few years ago, was a good, simple, very honest man. His faith and affection for his family was just unassailable, without question.
I guess my religious faith sustained me more than anything else. Family is also very important. If I didn't have children, it would have been too difficult. Even if you are strong, you still need people who would support you all the way.
When you put your total faith in God, no matter what happens, to a person who's a true believer, if you die, you know you're going to heaven to be with God.
By concentrating on what is good in people, by appealing to their idealism and their sense of justice, and by asking them to put their faith in the future, socialists put themselves at a severe disadvantage.
You work on things and you have such faith in them while you're making them that everything feels special - in a way.
I am politically pro-choice, but personally pro-life. I have my faith but refuse to force it on the world at large - especially this world, so brutal and unjust. I cannot make these wrenching personal life and death decisions for others - nor do I believe they should be made by a church run by childless men.
Doing films in Latin America is like an act of faith. I mean, you really have to believe in what you're doing because if not, you feel like it's a waste of time because you might as well be doing something that at least pays you the rent.
When did we begin to lose faith in our ability to effect change?
Education is extremely important to the Hispanic community, as well as faith, and certainly working hard.
You just kind of have faith. If that sounds kind of mystical, it's because I really don't know how it works, but I trust that it does. I try to write the way I read, in order to find out what happens next.
Well, I think that Catholicism's basic foundation of faith is personal conscience. I think it's between you and God, not you and the Church.
Your faith in yourself is all you will ever have. Don't let anyone take it away from you, ever.
I'm a Christian. I go to church when I can. I was raised Baptist. I went to a Lutheran school. I'm a nondenominational practicing Christian. I have a lot of faith.
My daddy, Rev. A. D. King, my granddaddy, Martin Luther King, Senior - we are a family of faith, hope and love.
We're reclaiming America and restoring honor. I believe we do that with faith, with hope, with charity, and honoring our brothers and our sisters as we honor each other.
I had very supportive parents that made the way for me, even at a time when there were very few women - no women, really maybe two or three women - and very few, fewer than that, African-American women heading in this direction, so there were very few people to look up to. You just had to have faith.
I'm a believer in belief. Faith is something that works - it causes people to do things, it has results. It's an intangible, indefinable, very real thing. And it moves people, sometimes to atrocity. And sometimes to survival.
I realized that my truest passion was for helping people change through faith in a higher power. That meant, for me, belonging to the church. Using my abilities to bring Christian doctrine to a postmodern world.
First, I prepare. Then I have faith.
I'd be lying if I said I had confidence in every choice I've made, that I have faith in every film I do on every shot.
I'm a private guy, and you don't want to be out there preaching to people. But faith leads you in the decisions you make. You don't always pick the right path, but it's there in your conscience.
A large psychic void is left by a loss of faith. So many Catholics have tried so many things to replace it.
President Obama and his radical feminist enforcers have had it in for Catholic medical providers from the get-go. It's about time all people of faith fought back against this unprecedented encroachment on religious liberty. First, they came for the Catholics. Who's next?
I had faith in the concept and the theory that all Americans are endowed with the right to a fair trial and I would be fairly judged and fairly tried.
The past is a source of knowledge, and the future is a source of hope. Love of the past implies faith in the future.
Courage is sometimes frail as hope is frail: a fragile shoot between two stones that grows brave toward the sun though warmth and brightness fail, striving and faith the only strength it knows.
Faith, culture, structure and guidance are good things.
I have never lost my faith in God.
I think the Moslem faith teaches hate.
The public has lost faith in the ability of Social Security and Medicare to provide for old age. They've lost faith in the banking system and in conventional medical insurance.
The Great Inflation of the 1970s destroyed faith in paper assets, because if you held a bond, suddenly the bond was worth much less money than it was before.
In a democracy, dissent is an act of faith.
I just have faith. It's just there. It's not any big deal.
I have a great faith in God and Jesus.
I have great faith that Heaven's there and I'll see my brothers and my mom and dad when I get there.
Let it ever be remembered that genuine faith in Christ will ever be productive of good works for this faith worketh by love, as the apostle says, and love to God always produces obedience to his holy laws.
I don't have too much faith in destiny, or an afterlife. This is it.
Stand straight, walk proud, have a little faith.
Is a faith without action a sincere faith?
Having a clear faith, based on the creed of the church is often labeled today as fundamentalism. Whereas relativism, which is letting oneself be tossed and swept along by every wind of teaching, look like the only attitude acceptable to today's standards.
The conversion of agnostic High Tories to the Anglican church is always rather suspect. It seems too pat and predictable, too clearly a matter of politics rather than faith.
Dawkins considers that all faith is blind faith, and that Christian and Muslim children are brought up to believe unquestioningly. Not even the dim-witted clerics who knocked me about at grammar school thought that.
My faith inspires me so much. It is the very reason that I run. I feel that my running is completely a gift from God and it is my responsibility to use it to glorify him.
My faith doesn't go over real well in Hollywood.
Once you're successful with a certain kind of music, it's hard not to have faith in it as a means to stay successful.
I have great faith in the intelligence of the American viewer and reader to put two and two together and come up with four.
Faith gives you an inner strength and a sense of balance and perspective in life.
Our faith is stronger than death, our philosophy is firmer than flesh, and the spread of the Kingdom of God upon the earth is more sublime and more compelling.
The only thing that stands between a man and what he wants from life is often merely the will to try it and the faith to believe that it is possible.
Oklahomans value our children and our seniors. Oklahomans value traditions of faith. Oklahomans value our heroes, our veterans. Oklahomans value innovation and the creative arts.
A quest for knowledge is not a war with faith spirituality is not usually an infelicitous amalgam of superstition and philistinism and moral relativism, taken outside midfield, leads inexorably both to heresy and to secular wickedness, which are often identical.
The balance between faith and reason is for the determination of each individual, and of the people as a whole, not of unauthorized government officials uttering impious humbug as they arbitrarily try to define that balance.
Science has sometimes been said to be opposed to faith, and inconsistent with it. But all science, in fact, rests on a basis of faith, for it assumes the permanence and uniformity of natural laws - a thing which can never be demonstrated.
You know, this is a war of ideology, a war of thoughts and of faith. And we need people to really stand for faith and trust, not hope and change.
Risk means everything from being honest about your faith, to moving, to quitting a job that's paying you a fortune but it's not what's in your heart. Risking things is one of the biggest fears we have.
I'm just glad that my community has faith and confidence in me.
The enemies of the Christian religion and the Law of God confuse law with faith.
Faith is a kind of winged intellect. The great workmen of history have been men who believed like giants.
I do believe that belief is the most powerful thing we have in this world. So, if we believe in something enough. And we have faith, we can make it a reality. That is basically the basis of my entire career and my entire life.
I have come to the conclusion that while a candidate's faith matters, what's most important is how he or she applies that faith.
The question Americans should ask is not whether a candidate is affiliated with a particular faith but rather whether that candidate's faith makes it more likely he or she will support policies that align with their values.
It's important to ask candidates about their beliefs, in part because politicians frequently exploit religious faith - often with the idea that voters will be more likely to unthinkingly accept certain political positions so long as they arise from religious belief.
For the record, I believe elected officials should talk about faith. Our founders believed the moral principles of faith were indispensable to our nation's survival. The Declaration of Independence mentions God four times.
Republican values - strong families, faith, personal responsibility and freedom, among others - are not unique to specific subsets of the electorate. They are universal values, and it is Republicans' job to remind Americans of that fact.
All are free to believe or not believe all are free to practice a faith or not. But those who believe must be free to speak of and act on their belief.
Are you gonna fuel your faith or fuel your fear? I'm all about fueling my faith, especially when it's hard to do so.
I am prejudiced in favor of him who, without impudence, can ask boldly. He has faith in humanity, and faith in himself. No one who is not accustomed to giving grandly can ask nobly and with boldness.
Catholicism played such a huge part in my life, I would not have survived without my faith.
Was the real Jesus of history one and the same as the Christ of faith whom we read about in the New Testament and worship in the church? Was Jesus really raised from the dead? Is he really the divine Lord of lords?
The substance of faith is a hope in the unseen.
I think that my preaching style and many of my ideas and ideals about faith are based in both Pentecostal and Baptist background.
The unutterable violence of the Holocaust shook our confidence in the possibility of telling any story of faith at all.
Tyler Perry's brand is faith, family and this whole thing that I've built, while my company, 34th Street Films, is like Disney's Touchstone. We can do anything. People don't know what to expect from me yet.
Our religion does not discriminate according to color, sex or anything else. What counts is piety and faith.
Man is wise and constantly in quest of more wisdom but the ultimate wisdom, which deals with beginnings, remains locked in a seed. There it lies, the simplest fact of the universe and at the same time the one which calls forth faith rather than reason.
The age of innocent faith in science and technology may be over.
And as the Divine that goes forth from the Lord is the good of love and the truth of faith, the angels are angels and are heaven in the measure in which they receive good and truth from the Lord.
To believe only possibilities is not faith, but mere philosophy.
As reason is a rebel to faith, so passion is a rebel to reason.
The faith I was born into formed me.
I've spent the last 50 years or so steeping myself in the world's religions, and I've done my homework. I've gone to each of the world's eight great religions and sought out the most profound scholars I could find, and I've apprenticed myself to them and actually practiced each faith.
Faith is an act of rational choice, which determines us to act as if certain things were true, and in the confident expectation that they will prove to be true.
Through history, people look for something spiritual. The greatest scientists in the world were men of religion and faith, too.
But how odd that in this heathen nation of empty pews, where churches' bare, ruined choirs are converted into luxury loft living, a Labour government - yes, a Labour government - is deliberately creating a huge expansion of faith schools.
But instead of standing up for reason, our government is handing education over to the world of faith.
So many of my friends are still trying to get record deals, and I've had one for 10 years now, where my only goal is to make the best music I can make. I've been very lucky. I have great faith that I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be, and whatever happens is going to be absolutely right for me.
Have faith in your own thoughts.
Don't be confused that my interest in religion, faith, and spirituality is driven by any sense of faith or spirituality of my own.
I am sensitive to the value of faith and religion and spirituality in people's lives because I'm a journalist.
I still have all the faith and love for my music and yet I'm still playing places for kids.
These are strange times. Reason, which once combatted faith and seemed to have conquered it, now has to look to faith to save it from dissolution.
The attributes for entrepreneurs cut both ways. You need the ability to ignore inconvenient facts and see the world as it should be and not as it is. This inspires people to take huge leaps of faith. But this blindness to facts can be a liability, too. The characteristics that help entrepreneurs succeed can also lead to their failure.
My mother's family were full-on Irish Catholics - faith in an elaborate old fashioned, highly conservative and madly baroque style. I sort of fell out of the tribe over women's rights and social justice issues when I was just 13 years old.
I did not compose my work as one might put on a church vestment... rather it sprung from the truly fervent faith of my heart, such as I have felt it since my childhood.
Each of us has an inner dream that we can unfold if we will just have the courage to admit what it is. And the faith to trust our own admission. The admitting is often very difficult.
Creativity is always a leap of faith. You're faced with a blank page, blank easel, or an empty stage.
I haven't lost faith in human nature and I haven't decided to be less compassionate to strangers.
Let's say black, the whole black religious experience, here, is very impressive to me, because when I first arrived I realized that people carry their faith with so much pride.
I love the fact that we, as black people, carry our faith with us. We share it and embrace it and love it and talk about it because we talk about everything else and why not that and that was the first impression that I had that really touched me.
It comes with faith, for with complete faith there is no fear of what faces you in life or death.
As a small business owner for the last 15 years, when I think of what truly changed my life, it was my faith, a strong family, my mom did a really, really good job of encouraging me in very clear and discernible ways.
We can reach our potential, but to do so, we must reach within ourselves. We must summon the strength, the will, and the faith to move forward - to be bold - to invest in our future.
You can't be afraid to put out a fire if you're a fireman. You can't be afraid to be a police officer and carry a gun if you're afraid to get up and go out there. So you've got to put that fear to the side and go out in faith to overcome that.
When the truth is that there would be no great Western music, and certainly no decent choral repertoire, without the Catholic faith.
I was brought up the Mexican way, where actors are paid very little and every part you take is an act of faith. If people respect that, then great.
Seeds of faith are always within us sometimes it takes a crisis to nourish and encourage their growth.
Ours is a country built more on people than on territory. The Jews will come from everywhere: from France, from Russia, from America, from Yemen... Their faith is their passport.
Most atheists bristle at the thought that atheism has anything to do with faith, but not Penn Jillette.
If I want to understand the laws of physics I have to first believe what I read about physics. I have to have faith in what I read.
Evolution is unobservable. It's based on blind faith in a few dry bones and on unreliable dating systems in which the gullible trust. Kids should be allowed to make up their own minds about this issue, and not be censored to 'one side is all we will let you hear."
Christians must share their faith in obedience to the Great Commission, because we are only seeing the fruit of sin this side of death.
Faith is the first step to understanding. Either it's the Word of an infallible God, the fallible words of men, or faith in what you personally believe. You've got to have faith in something. Believe me.
Men who accomplish great things in the industrial world are the ones who have faith in the money producing power of ideas.
Faith is the black person's federal reserve system.
It helps, I think, to consider ourselves on a very long journey: the main thing is to keep to the faith, to endure, to help each other when we stumble or tire, to weep and press on.
I believe that the Framers of the Constitution made their intent clear when they wrote the First Amendment. I believe they wanted to keep the new government from endorsing one religion over another, not erase the public consciousness or common faith.
I'm on the board of a national group called Faith in America. It's designed to fight religious-based bigotry.
No relief was forthcoming from my then-Catholic faith, which said the practice of homosexuality was a 'mortal sin' subject to damnation.
The United States have fulfilled in good faith all their treaty stipulations with the Indian tribes, and have in every other instance insisted upon a like performance of their obligations.
Men of Virginia, countrymen of Washington, of Patrick Henry, of Jefferson, and of Madison, will ye be true to your constitutional faith?
Human societies, like human beings, live by faith and die when faith dies.
If solace is any sort of succor to someone, that is sufficient. I believe in the faith of people, whatever faith they may have.
Anyone who really studies Catholicism deeply is aware of the mystical nature of our faith. Even references to Christ's mystical body has connections to that principle.
We're telling a story. And the demands of that are different from the demands of a documentary. The audience must believe in order to keep faith in the story.
Ultimately it's a leap of faith and a leap of imagination to put yourself back in time into those conditions and situations and see how you would react.
God does say He will graciously entertain our prayers. He says that if we exercise faith, and if our request is in accordance with His will, He will hear us.
Comics don't work if the story is all in the text and the images are illustrative. It's hard to have enough faith in the artists to allow them to do their job.
You often feel that your prayers scarcely reach the ceiling but, oh, get into this humble spirit by considering how good the Lord is, and how evil you all are, and then prayer will mount on wings of faith to heaven.
My faith has been the driving thing of my life. I think it is important that people who are perceived as liberals not be afraid of talking about moral and community values.
I try to act out of faith.
I grew up in a very religious family and it is the motivating force to every thing I do. I am fortunate to have had adults all around me who really lived their faith, in helping other people and doing the best you can do.
We receive by faith and we keep it by faith.
Science, we are repeatedly told, is the most reliable form of knowledge about the world because it is based on testable hypotheses. Religion, by contrast, is based on faith. The term 'doubting Thomas' well illustrates the difference.
We will never fully explain the world by appealing to something outside it that must simply be accepted on faith, be it an unexplained God or an unexplained set of mathematical laws.
There are a lot of Christian fundamentalists there are a lot of Muslim extremists. Every religion - Mormonism - has something way on the side that's completely using the religion as some weird backbone for their twisted faith. It has nothing to do with their religion.
Man doesn't dictate what you do or how you do it. If you believe in God, believe in God have your faith in him. That's where my faith lies.
I love Canada. It's a wonderful political act of faith that exists atop a breathtakingly beautiful land.
Fanatics do not have faith - they have belief. With faith you let go. You trust. Whereas with belief you cling.
In the last analysis, of course, an oath will encourage fidelity in office only to the degree that officeholders continue to believe that they cannot escape ultimate accountability for a breach of faith.
When the principles that run against your deepest convictions begin to win the day, then the battle is your calling, and peace has become sin. You must at the price of dearest peace lay your convictions bare before friend and enemy with all the fire of your faith.
Great feelings will often take the aspect of error, and great faith the aspect of illusion.
Sectarian divide has created a schism in our society that is a major challenge. As monarch of all Bahrainis, it pains me to see many harmed by the actions of a few. And yet I am optimistic and have faith in our people. We all realize that now is the time to strike a balance between stability and gradual reform.
Of course, bad marriages are so pervasive that they have invaded the faith community too.
I want people to just to see, all you got to do is have a little faith.
I heard my name associated with the Peter Pan syndrome more than once. But really, what's so wrong with Peter Pan? Peter Pan flies. He is a metaphor for dreams and faith.
Hollywood is a suction for your confidence or your faith or your togetherness. Just walking on the street you can feel it.
I think Hispanic community - the values that resonate in our community are fundamentally conservative. They are faith, family and patriotism. Do you know the rate of military enlistment among Hispanics is higher than any demographic in this country? And they are also hard work and responsibility.
I'll tell you, in my life I've never once have seen a Hispanic panhandler, because in our community, it would be viewed as shameful to be out on the street begging. Those are all conservative values - faith, family, hard work, responsibility.
To be sure, the response of faith to revelation, which God grants to the creature he chooses and moves with his love, occurs in such a way that it is truly the creature that provides the response, with its own nature and its natural powers of love.
Whoever removes the Cross and its interpretation by the New Testament from the center, in order to replace it, for example, with the social commitment of Jesus to the oppressed as a new center, no longer stands in continuity with the apostolic faith.
Downtown, one has less time. But there are in Europe much people who have the faith, in South America, too.
And so, today, if the state can no longer appeal to the old moral principles that belong to the Christian tradition, it will be forced to create a new official faith and new moral principles which will be binding on its citizens.
I have faith in the jury system.
I can't really put it in one sentence because although on one hand Preacher is about faith and yes it is also about, I suppose, the search for God, the search for faith and the manipulation and the abuse committed by figures in whom I suppose people have faith.
There are a lot of things I can take, and a few that I can't. What I can't take is when my older brother, who's everything that I want to be, starts losing faith in things. I saw that look in your eyes last night. I don't ever want to see that look in your eyes again.
At the time I perceived most religious men, particularly the pastors with all their talk about love, faith and relationship, as effeminate.
I have learned that track doesn't define me. My faith defines me. I'm running because I have been blessed with a gift.
You have got to believe in yourself every time you go out there and race. If you have no faith in your ability all that training has been a waste of time.
Therefore, the church is not absolutely necessary as an object of faith, not even for us today, for then Abraham and the other prophets would not have given assent to those things which were revealed to them from God without any intervening help of the church.
There are divers men who make a great show of loyalty, and pretend to such discretion in the hidden things they hear, that at the end folk come to put faith in them.
I walked along that slippery slope where if you fail through lack of faith, you sell your soul to the devil.
No one else in our family was a professional musician so this took an enormous leap of faith on their part.
It is from the traditional family that we absorb those universal ideals and principles which are the teaching of Jesus, the bedrock of our religious faith. We are taught the difference between right and wrong, and about the law, just punishment and discipline.
Buddhism has a very beautiful teaching that says the worst thing you can do to your soul is to tell someone their faith is wrong.
My faith always has been and always will be important to me.
As the most extravagant errors were received among the established articles of their faith, so the most infamous vices obtained in their practice, and were indulged not only with impunity, but authorized by the sanction of their laws.
I accept people for who they are and love them. That doesn't mean I have to agree or that I have to turn my back on the tenets of my faith and reject the tenets of my faith when it comes to homosexuality.
For more than three thousand years men have quarreled concerning the formulas of their faith.
Ethical religion can be real only to those who are engaged in ceaseless efforts at moral improvement. By moving upward we acquire faith in an upward movement, without limit.
I was never the ingenue, so hopefully that'll make it easier to age and still work. I know a lot of actors who are really dissatisfied with where they're at even though some of them are huge stars and I feel like, 'Oh, my God, you're at the top.' Something interesting will come. It always does. I have faith.
We had great faith that with patience, understanding, and education, that my family and I could be helpful in changing their minds and attitudes around.
Ann Romney makes all women proud by the way she has conducted her life as a strong woman of faith, as a mother, as a wife and as a true patriot.
I don't really go down one path. I wouldn't call myself a Buddhist, or a Catholic or a Christian or a Muslim, or Jewish. I couldn't put myself into any organized faith.
The mere assemblage of peace loving people to interchange convincing reasons for their common faith, mere exhortation and argument to the public in favor of peace in general fall short of the mark.
In the latter case life rests upon a thousand presuppositions which the individual can never trace back to their origins, and verify but which he must accept upon faith and belief.
In Christ the original image of God is restored, by faith in this world and by sight in the world to come.
I do not purpose to discuss faith in its dogmatic sense today.
Taking it in its wider and generic application, I understand faith to be the supplement of sense or, to change the phrase, all knowledge which comes not to us through our senses we gain by faith in others.
We know the past and its great events, the present in its multitudinous complications, chiefly through faith in the testimony of others.
The realm of immediate or personal knowledge is a narrow circle in which these bodies move the realm of knowledge derived through faith is as wide as the universe, and old as eternity.
If, then, knowledge be power, how much more power to we gain through the agency of faith, and what elevation must it give to human character.
If, then, faith widens the connections, it elevates the man.
I have faith in the market when we get the rules right.
I'm a lapsed Quaker. I don't go to meetings any more. But I'm very drawn to Catholicism - all that glitter. I'd love to be a Catholic. I think it would be fantastic - faith, forgiveness, absolution, extreme unction - all these wonderful words. I don't think anyone who was ever born a Catholic hasn't died a Catholic, no matter how lapsed they are.
At times of distress, we all like to recall the advice of fathers and mothers. The best advice my father gave me was to keep faith and deep confidence in the potential of the Greek people nurture the belief that they can do things.
You see, some non-Catholic friends of mine have questioned the depth of my faith because of the fact that I have a good education.
The marriage of a man and woman is the most enduring human institution, honored in all cultures and by every religious faith. It's in this institution that children are meant to be nurtured. We know this after thousands of years of human experience.
I've been speaking at churches for years, as well as juvenile jails, rehabs and hospitals, and I always talk about my faith. That is a declaration of my relationship with God.
President Ford was a devoted, decent man of impeccable integrity who put service to his country before his own self interest. He helped heal our nation during a time of crisis, provided steady leadership and restored people's faith in the presidency and in government.
I spent four months in Prague in these blue rooms reacting to nothing and you basically place your faith in the hands of the director and the special effects co-coordinator and you keep your fingers crossed and hope that the creatures look really scary.
My faith has no bed to sleep upon but omnipotence.
In light of these facts Republicans have put forth a variety of proposals to make Social Security remain solvent for future generations. But up to this point, Democrats have chosen to oppose our good faith efforts and insist that indeed there is no problem.
I believe there is a moral sense and a global ethic that commands attention from people of every religion and every faith, and people of no faith. But I think what's new is that we now have the capacity to communicate instantaneously across frontiers right across the world.
Christianity has always embraced both reason and faith.
I have faith in faith. God is there, whether we have faith or not, so why not have faith in him?
Christians can bring peace to multi-religious Europe because we are able to understand the role of faith in the lives of other believers better than atheists.
I believe that my own Christian faith does indeed make universal claims.
I don't think it's any coincidence that I lost my religious faith and 'manned up' in the same year. I was described somewhere as a lapsed Catholic, which is funny because I'm not going back! I want to achieve things rather than live life in an animalistic way.
To imply that religious believers have no right to engage moral questions in the public square or at the ballot is simply to establish a Reichian secularism as our state faith.
The belief that there are other life forms in the universe is a matter of faith. There is not a single shred of evidence for any other life forms, and in forty years of searching, none has been discovered. There is absolutely no evidentiary reason to maintain this belief.
Hope is the belief we might get it done, and faith is the knowledge we will get it done.
Notwithstanding these setbacks, the dream of a beautiful American orchestra goes on, and I share Dr. King's faith that each year we move inexorably closer to a magnificent opening night.
That bedrock faith that I could write was what blinded me to attempts to discourage me.
What the F.D.I.C. does is to put the full faith and credit of the United States government behind every savings account in the nation, up to a limit that has changed over the years and stands now at $100,000.
The ultimate ground of faith and knowledge is confidence in God.
If all Church power vests in the clergy, then the people are practically bound to passive obedience in all matters of faith and practice for all right of private judgment is then denied.
I always wanted to be honest with myself and to those who have had faith in me.
The ultimate wisdom which deals with beginnings, remains locked in a seed. There it lies, the simplest fact of the universe and at the same time the one which calls faith rather than reason.
I believe in faith, family and country. I really keep it that simple.
How do I love Tim McGraw? Let me count the ways: I love that he's a country boy with a city sensibility. I love that he refuses to be pegged, and his duet with Nelly proves it. And I really love that he had the brains to marry Faith Hill.
The principle of acting in good faith is at the heart of decent work.
More recently, as faith gave way to materialism, anti-Semitism assumed a secular mode, harnessing itself to the dominant ideologies of both the Left and the Right.
To have faith is to believe in truth, believe that truth confers special power on those lucky enough to get a little insight, and to know in our hearts that all these things come from God, which is why we should never get too cocky about our successes.
Seven and half years ago I began my own journey. For me and my family it was a time of adversity. But during that adversity I derived a deeper faith. And born out of that adversity was a commitment to devote myself to those people and to those issues that truly matter to me.
Faith always contains an element of risk, of venture and we are impelled to make the venture by the affinity and attraction which we feel in ourselves.
Bereavement is the sharpest challenge to our trust in God if faith can overcome this, there is no mountain which it cannot remove.
All faith consists essentially in the recognition of a world of spiritual values behind, yet not apart from, the world of natural phenomena.
I have faith in the justice system, and what will happen will happen. I'm just trying to do the right thing.
I haven't chosen to make an issue of faith.
I think the American people, understandably, have sort of lost faith in the United Nations.
Everyone should have a moment with Ron Howard in their life to give you faith in our industry.
I've always thought, and it gets tested at times, that I have a great faith in the fundamental goodness of human beings.
I suppose I should say that I treasure blasphemy, as a faith of the highest order.
American government was founded on a belief and a faith in God and in doing what is right and just.
Democrats can neither control nor predict whether our GOP counterparts are really ready to play chicken with the U.S. economy. But we can assure the American people that our party takes the nation's faith and credit seriously.
In the West, you have always associated the Islamic faith 100 percent with Arab culture. This in itself is a fundamentalist attitude and it is mistaken.
I have seen doctors, in good faith, leave patients on steroids for years, thinking they are doing right. A friend of mine was on steroids for so long, she has severe osteoporosis.
After the desperate years of their own war, after six years of repression inside Spain and six years of horror in exile, these people remain intact in spirit. They are armed with a transcendent faith they have never won, and yet they have never accepted defeat.
Pray for intestinal fortitude, work hard, and keep the faith. Oh, and pray for good luck, you're gonna need it.
We have the incredible privilege of serving in the highest offices in the state. We must prove ourselves worthy of our fellow citizens' faith. We must be trusted to always place the public's good above our own and to always choose fairness over favoritism.
Skepticism, riddling the faith of yesterday, prepared the way for the faith of tomorrow.
Justifying faith is not a naked assent to the truths of the gospel.
Godliness, as well as the doctrine of our faith, is a mystery.
The independence of the economic sphere was a tenet of faith with Liberalism.
Since the presidency of Ronald Reagan, conservatives have succeeded by adhering to a platform that rests firmly on three legs: smaller government, faith and family, and a strong national defense. These three legs do not merely represent a political coalition they are three necessary components of a strong and secure America.
My mother was the influence in my life. She was strong she had great faith in the ultimate triumph of justice and hard work. She believed passionately in education.
Of course, Americans have no monopoly of patriotic enthusiasm and good faith.
The Constitution was the expression not only of a political faith, but also of political fears. It was wrought both as the organ of the national interest and as the bulwark of certain individual and local rights.
There are more people living in Lower Manhattan now than before the terrorist attacks. That's faith for you. There's such a strong spirit here.
I'm not Candide, nor Dr Pangloss, but we know that faith moves mountains.
I am not here to parade my religious sentiments, but I declare I have too much respect for the faith in which I was born to ever use it as the basis of a political organization.
I think there is a great deal of interest still in the Christian faith.
I come from a Christian faith. I am not going to give you insight into my particular beliefs.
I would never have gone anywhere if it hadn't been for Mother's faith and support.
Through these adversities, Israel has endured with continued strength, conviction, and faith.
With faith and courage, generations of Armenians have overcome great suffering and proudly preserved their culture, traditions, and religion and have told the story of the genocide to an often indifferent world.
I have a lot of faith in people.
If there are Muslims who believe that they've got to kill Christians to make a way for the Islamic faith in the West, not only would they be disappointed, but it will lead to conflict, there's no doubt about that.
Great dislike to the Bible was shown by those who conversed with me about it, and several have remarked to me, at different times, that if it were not for that book, Catholics would never be led to renounce their own faith.
Some theists in evolutionary science acquiesce to these tacit rules and retain a personal faith while accepting a thoroughly naturalistic picture of physical reality.
You can't do opera when already from the 10th row you can only see little dolls on the stage. In such an enormous space you can't put much faith in the personal presence of the individual singer, which is reflected in facial expressions, among other things.
Faith is the substance of hope - of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. So if you can hope for it and imagine it, and keep imagining and hoping and seeing yourself driving a new car, or seeing yourself getting that job, or seeing yourself excel, seeing yourself help that person - that is faith.
I have faith the men and women of the Coast Guard will immediately rise to the challenge and see the people hit by Katrina through until the storm has truly calmed.
I am a bit of a hopeless romantic. I really do have a faith and a belief in love, and when I love, I love hard.
Red Sox fans have been pushed to the brink over the years, but that's how faith grows stronger.
I'm a writer of faith who worries about the intolerance of religion. I look at the past and fear we haven't learned from it. I believe that humanity is capable of evil as well as great acts of courage and goodness. I have hope. Deep down, I believe in the human spirit, although sometimes that belief is shaken.
Visible Faith is an expression of my Christian faith which must be visible to be real! I gave the name to the collection of musicians who worked with me on the record.
Christianity emerged from the religion of Israel. Or rather, it has as its background a persistent strain in that religion. To that strain Christians have looked back, and rightly, as the preparation in history for their faith.
Religiously the Empire was pluralistic and marked by a search for a faith which would be satisfying intellectually and ethically and would give assurance of immortality.
In the third century after Christ the faith continued to spread.
For two thousand years, the Church has guided the development of music, carefully legislating to fuse artistic talent and aesthetic beauty with the demands of the Faith.
The enemy is not Islam, the great world faith, but a perversion of Islam.
I have deep respect for people's individual faith, but when faith gets connected to the machinery of state, or the machinery of hate, I find it very confronting.
If we are strong, and have faith in life and its richness of surprises, and hold the rudder steadily in our hands. I am sure we will sail into quiet and pleasent waters for our old age.
The solid, middle-class values of hard work, responsibility, family, community, and faith my father talked about tirelessly from Iowa to New York, he lived at home. The hopes he had for his family and for me, he had for all Americans. I think Americans understood this.
I met the president when he was president-elect at a meeting in Austin. He spoke of his faith. He spoke of his desire for a compassionate conservatism, for a faith-based initiative that would do something for poor people.
I think it's a good thing for a president or political leaders to want to put their values or their faith into action. Desmond Tutu did that in South Africa. Martin Luther King Jr. did that here. This is a good thing.
I'm often asked what I think about the faith of the President George W. Bush. I think it is sincere. I think it's very real. I think it's deeply held.
So when the only domestic social policy is tax cuts that mostly benefit the wealthiest Americans, we say, 'Where is faith being put into action here?'
The Negro people of America... have cut our forests, tilled our fields, built our railroads, fought our battles, and in all of their trials they have manifested a simple faith, a grateful heart, a cheerful spirit, and an undivided loyalty .
Those who are rooted in the depths that are eternal and unchangeable and who rely on unshakeable principles, face change full of courage, courage based on faith.
After 'Four Feathers,' I quit then because I just lost faith. I didn't like how the business was.
I don't worry about being in a hurry any more, because my faith in God will always deliver me on time.
Faith is the heroism of the intellect.
Propelled by freedom of faith, gender equality and economic justice for all, India will become a modern nation. Minor blemishes cannot cloak the fact that India is becoming such a modern nation: no faith is in danger in our country, and the continuing commitment to gender equality is one of the great narratives of our times.
I stepped out on faith to follow my lifelong dream of being an author. I made real sacrifices and took big risks. But living, it seems to me, is largely about risk.
Why should any man have power over any other man's faith, seeing Christ Himself is the author of it?
Our nation has kept faith with its veterans. Funding for veterans healthcare and benefits is strong, and has increased more than 75 percent in the last decade.
All the faith and good will in the world is wasted without direction.
In this new century, our commitment to family and to faith, to community and opportunity, to freedom and to hope, will be the light that shines to lead us forward.
It's also reflective of a young person's religion or faith in that it's highly charged with sacramental imagery and with country imagery, because I was in the seminary for so many years in the country.
I desire an special interest in your prayers that my faith fail not in the day of adversity.
Bad religion is arrogant, self-righteous, dogmatic and intolerant. And so is bad science. But unlike religious fundamentalists, scientific fundamentalists do not realize that their opinions are based on faith. They think they know the truth.
The facts of science are real enough, and so are the techniques that scientists use, and so are the technologies based on them. But the belief system that governs conventional scientific thinking is an act of faith.
For more than 200 years, materialists have promised that science will eventually explain everything in terms of physics and chemistry. Believers are sustained by the faith that scientific discoveries will justify their beliefs.
Well, you have to keep your faith in the fact that there are a lot of intelligent people who are actively looking for something interesting, people who have been disappointed so many times.
If faith is your motivation, share that.
I've long been really intrigued with what is the... proper role of faith and religion in public life.
One of the joys of being a Christian or being a person of faith is that you believe deep down that death isn't the worst thing, you know. Not living your life: that's the worst thing. And death is not, it's not all it's cracked up to be. It's not, it's not the end of the world.
Faith is a dynamic and ever-changing process, not some fixed body of truth that exists outside our world and our understanding. God's truth may be fixed and unchanging, but our comprehension of that truth will always be partial and flawed at best.
Humor has always been important to me. If there is a shield of faith that you can keep up against difficulties, humor is the Teflon coating.
At issue in the Hiss Case was the question whether this sick society, which we call Western civilization, could in its extremity still cast up a man whose faith in it was so great that he would voluntarily abandon those things which men hold good, including life, to defend it.
At issue was the question whether this man's faith could prevail against a man whose equal faith it was that this society is sick beyond saving, and that mercy itself pleads for its swift extinction and replacement by another.
I think the issue of clergy sexual abuse sparked people to look at their faith in a different way.
We are the meeting place, an entity that's trying to connect faith and culture.
The Afghans did not have sophisticated weapons like the Soviets did, but with their faith they defeated a superpower.
I personally have always found the Unitarian faith a source of comfort and help in my daily life.
Put your faith in God and confidence in yourself.
I still have great faith in what is good and right in all of us.
The historical orthodox Christian faith is extremely wide and diverse.
Well, I affirm orthodox Christian faith. I affirm the Nicene Creed. I don't think I'm doing anything terribly new.
My parents were both very intellectually honest, straightforward, and for them, faith meant that you were fully engaged.
I want our government to encourage and protect freedom as well as our traditions of faith and family.
Faith makes all evil good to us, and all good better unbelief makes all good evil, and all evil worse. Faith laughs at the shaking of the spear unbelief trembles at the shaking of a leaf.
I think church and state should remain entirely separate at all costs, and that the decision of religious marriage should be of each faith to debate and decide free of political influence.
Yes, we were looking for a Faith spin-off, but then Faith backed down. Eliza got a really wonderful offer over on Fox in a show, and, for reasons I didn't talk to her about, she decided to go there, and everyone respects that.
There is a split between Muslims who want to practice their faith in peace and tolerance with other religions and other people, and these extreme, radical fundamentalists who have shown a total lack of tolerance for people with different views, starting with people who they don't think are good Muslims, and going on to include Christians and Jews.
Often, we are quick to find blame with others but yet are unable to give constructive responses. There seems to be a tendency to doubt almost everything. Do we not have faith in our own people's strengths and in our institutions? Can we afford distrust amongst ourselves?
When I started this project, I was a young architect. I was very apprehensive about any changes to the design. Whether I wanted to or not, I learned that you can accept some changes to its form without compromising its intent. But it's a leap of faith that I didn't want to make initially - to put it mildly.
Faith is the response to something which is calling us from the timeless part of our reality.
When you have put all your faith in man and continue to be disappointed, don't you hope there is something out of there that is not of human element?
The orthodox Jewish faith practically excludes woman from religious life.
In the Europe which was created by the Second World War, divided into two blocks, each in need of a revolution that would end the abuses and injustices of capitalism and the privileges of a bureaucratic caste, collective faith does not exist.
In times when religious or political faith or hope predominates, the writer functions totally in unison with society, and expresses society's feelings, beliefs, and hopes in perfect harmony.
You need to develop, somehow, a huge amount of faith and confidence in yourself, because there's a lot of rejection throughout an actor's life and you have to believe in yourself more than anyone else.
Our first responsibility is to protect the American people and we cannot put on blinders to expect that everyone who seeks asylum does so in good faith.
While your life is the true expression of your faith, whom can you fear?
The great thing is that whether we have faith or not, we are by and large very tolerant of people, whatever their particular view.
It's really important to say this. Often the faith schools were founded before the state provided education. I want good education in this country so I'm not going to slag off faith schools. I think that it's important that people of different backgrounds and different faiths go to school together and many faith schools do that.
If you cast your bread upon the water and you have faith, you'll get back cash. If you don't have faith, you'll get soggy bread.
Denzel's quality, I think, is his faith. You have all the action in your head and you have to believe in it and just do it. That's what he does and that's what he taught me to do.
A few years ago you couldn't go from TV to film. It was like a 'no no' but I believe when you find a plan and purpose that God has for your life, there's not anything man can do to you. Especially when your faith is not really standing in the wisdom of man, you're really standing in the wisdom of God.
Americans are fascinated by their own love of shopping. This does not make them unique. It's just that they have more to buy than most other people on the planet. And it's also an affirmation of faith in their country.
The New Right, in many cases, is doing nothing less than placing a heretical claim on Christian faith that distorts, confuses, and destroys the opportunity for a biblical understanding of Jesus Christ and of his gospel for millions of people.
But back to your question, it was a wonderful experience with the Art Ensemble, and I keep in contact and sort of follow what's going on, but it was also very important to make this step, you may say this leap of faith.
Have a little faith. Don't give up.
Know why you believe, understand what you believe, and possess a reason for the faith that is in you.
It just took all of that to come to a screeching halt, to get to the point of having nothing, for me to finally realize, Hey, what are you fighting with this for? Until then, I hadn't claimed my faith as my own I had just grown up with it.
I'm still going to make mistakes, but I don't have any problems with publicly professing my faith now. It just took me a long time to get to the right place in my relationship with Christ.
Faith means intense, usually confident, belief that is not based on evidence sufficient to command assent from every reasonable person.
I am convinced we shall succeed. I have faith in this country, because I have faith in its people.
I have learned to have more faith in the scientist than he does in himself.
There will be trying times during Obama's presidency, and liberty will need staunch defenders. Can Obama reshape liberalism to be, as it was under F.D.R., a fighting faith, unapologetically patriotic and strong in the defense of liberty? That would be a service to our country.
The process of philosophic and scientific enlightenment has shaken the stability of beliefs held explicitly as articles of faith.
In search of a complete education with the ideals of trust, faith, understanding and compassion, many families are turning to the structure, discipline and academic standards of Catholic schools.
Mr. Speaker, I am deeply concerned that many regions of this world are suffering from the effects of armed conflicts with religious aspects. I believe that the differences of faith are not the real reason for these conflicts.
It is something that is called MDS. It is a rare blood disorder that affects the bone marrow. I'm going to beat this. My doctors say it and my faith says it.
Those who have always had faith in its final success can do no less than rejoice as if it was our own triumph after five years of daily struggle to impose Cuban music on the European continent.
We will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind. In the faith that looks through death, in years that bring the philosophic mind.
Yes, you who called us godless, we found our faith in Adolf Hitler, and through him found God once again. That is the greatness of our day, that is our good fortune!
I've been brought up with the Christian faith with my family.
The civil rights movement was based on faith. Many of us who were participants in this movement saw our involvement as an extension of our faith. We saw ourselves doing the work of the Almighty. Segregation and racial discrimination were not in keeping with our faith, so we had to do something.
I will always try to share my faith with any person who is willing to listen. When I feel a wall go up, we can talk about something else... and I will pray for you.
Bush's faith in the rightness of his strategy in the broader war is deep-seated. It is a product of faith.
Faith is not trying to believe something regardless of the evidence. Faith is daring to do something regardless of the consequences.
I have a Christian worldview and so it shapes the way that I view issues. I don't apologize for that, and I don't think people of faith ought to shrink away from being in the public arena.
Voters must have faith in the electoral process for our democracy to succeed.
There are many countries where you can only believe more or you can believe less. But in the United States we have this incredible smorgasbord, and it really interests me why people are drawn to one faith rather than another, especially to a system of belief that to an outsider seems absurd or dangerous.
I believe that we must reach our brother, never toning down our fundamental oppositions, but meeting him when he asks to be met, with a reason for the faith that is in us, as well as with a loving sympathy for them as brothers.
It is easier to have faith that God will support each House of Hospitality and Farming Commune and supply our needs in the way of food and money to pay bills, than it is to keep a strong, hearty, living faith in each individual around us - to see Christ in him.
Let those who, still in their youth, have preserved their faith and fullness of hope, keep looking up.
Do not fear lest you should meditate too much upon Him and speak of Him in an unworthy way, providing you are led by faith. Do not fear lest you should entertain false opinions of Him so long as they are in conformity with the notion of the infinitely perfect Being.
In this connection, faith and experience teach us many truths by means of the short-cut of authority and by the proofs of very pleasant and agreeable feelings.
Insurgents have capitalized on popular resentment and anger towards the United States and the Iraqi government to build their own political, financial and military support, and the faith of Iraqi citizens in their new government has been severely undermined.
Greece's European neighbors were able step in and bolster the weak foundation on which Greece's free-spending budget was based. It would be difficult for any country, or intergovernmental organization, to rescue an economy the size of the U.S. if investors were ever to lose faith in our bonds because of our enormous debt.
Many are needed to plant and water what has been planted now that the faith has spread so far and there are so many people... No matter who plants or waters, God gives no harvest unless what is planted is the faith of Peter and unless he agrees to his teachings.
When you look around right now, Nashville is kind of going through another changing of guard you're watching the Martina McBrides and the Faith Hills and all of them that have been the big stars for the last however many years, and the next generation is coming in: Miranda Lambert, Carrie Underwood, those girls.
Losing faith in your own singularity is the start of wisdom, I suppose also the first announcement of death.
It would make life much easier if I could have total faith and not question everything all the time, but I can't do it and I won't do it.
The only force that can overcome an idea and a faith is another and better idea and faith, positively and fearlessly upheld.
I believe that today's players who are Christians feel that it's important and their responsibility to acknowledge their faith.
Reason is an action of the mind knowledge is a possession of the mind but faith is an attitude of the person. It means you are prepared to stake yourself on something being so.
Whoever sets any bounds for the reconstructive power of the religious life over the social relations and institutions of men, to that extent denies the faith of the Master.
To a certain extent I am taking a leap of faith. I'm adding up the evidence on either side, and I'm seeing the evidence of there not being a God is overwhelming compared to the evidence for there being a God.
God's got something for me. I have faith it'll be OK.
I am struck by the fact that personal faith and political agendas are intertwined more closely now than at any other time in recent history.
Faith is believing in things when common sense tells you not to.
Personal faith can be a powerful force for public good.
My faith grew strong, and I sent a letter (as I was ordered) to the Rev. Dignitary of the Cathedral of Exeter. I was assured, before I sent it, he would not answer it.
The doubt of an earnest, thoughtful, patient and laborious mind is worthy of respect. In such doubt may be found indeed more faith than in half the creeds.
Millions of Americans find community, comfort and support in their faith.
Faith given back to us after a night of doubt is a stronger thing, and far more valuable to us than faith that has never been tested.
My faith, inasmuch as I have any, is more like a kind of Joseph Campbell thing, and even that frequently finds itself tested to oblivion in siren waters.
The principal end both of my father and of myself in the conquest of India... has been the propagation of the holy Catholic faith.
And in that I cannot send unto you all my businesses in writing, I despatch these present bearers fully informed in all things, to whom it may please you to give faith and credence in what they shall say unto you by word of mouth.
I'm an enormous fan of people who have had a lot of faith in themselves, and been on a tremendous journey.
I've always had great faith in people.
Faith is a higher faculty than reason.
I've always had great faith in the Man Upstairs.
I believe though I do not comprehend, and I hold by faith what I cannot grasp with the mind.
Testimony is an integral part of the Black religious tradition. It is the occasion where the believer stands before the community of faith in order to give account of the hope that is in him or her.
A nation that is afraid to let its people judge the truth and falsehood in an open market is a nation that is afraid of its people.
Pick the day. Enjoy it - to the hilt. The day as it comes. People as they come... The past, I think, has helped me appreciate the present - and I don't want to spoil any of it by fretting about the future.
I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.
We fear violence less than our own feelings. Personal, private, solitary pain is more terrifying than what anyone else can inflict.
What is needed, rather than running away or controlling or suppressing or any other resistance, is understanding fear that means, watch it, learn about it, come directly into contact with it. We are to learn about fear, not how to escape from it.
I have learned over the years that when one's mind is made up, this diminishes fear knowing what must be done does away with fear.
We should not fret for what is past, nor should we be anxious about the future men of discernment deal only with the present moment.
It is the strange fate of man, that even in the greatest of evils the fear of the worst continues to haunt him.
Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we learned here.
The first duty of man is to conquer fear he must get rid of it, he cannot act till then.
A person's fears are lighter when the danger is at hand.
Fear stifles our thinking and actions. It creates indecisiveness that results in stagnation. I have known talented people who procrastinate indefinitely rather than risk failure. Lost opportunities cause erosion of confidence, and the downward spiral begins.
I have never known any distress that an hour's reading did not relieve.
True nobility is exempt from fear.
Fear makes us feel our humanity.
There are many victories worse than a defeat.
Fear is static that prevents me from hearing myself.
One had to take some action against fear when once it laid hold of one.
Prosperity is not without many fears and distastes adversity not without many comforts and hopes.
There is no passion so contagious as that of fear.
He that hopes no good fears no ill.
That man is prudent who neither hopes nor fears anything from the uncertain events of the future.
To him who is in fear everything rustles.
There are very few monsters who warrant the fear we have of them.
We often pretend to fear what we really despise, and more often despise what we really fear.
There are times when fear is good. It must keep its watchful place at the heart's controls.
We have perhaps a natural fear of ends. We would rather be always on the way than arrive. Given the means, we hang on to them and often forget the ends.
I fear the Greeks, even when they bring gifts.
The thinner the ice, the more anxious is everyone to see whether it will bear.
The fear of becoming a 'has-been' keeps some people from becoming anything.
Everyone wishes that the man whom he fears would perish.
Minds that are ill at ease are agitated by both hope and fear.
I'd rather give my life than be afraid to give it.
As a child, I was more afraid of tetanus shots than, for example, Dracula.
To pity distress is but human to relieve it is Godlike.
My 'fear' is my substance, and probably the best part of me.
We fear things in proportion to our ignorance of them.
Every man, through fear, mugs his aspirations a dozen times a day.
Some movie stars wear their sunglasses even in church. They're afraid God might recognize them and ask for autographs.
He whom many fear, has himself many to fear.
Fear has many eyes and can see things underground.
There is no hope unmingled with fear, and no fear unmingled with hope.
There is nothing that fear and hope does not permit men to do.
You know, sometimes I feel well and vital in the world, and sometimes I just feel so distressed I want to pull my hair out by the roots.
I have a fear of being boring.
I'm not at the point where I'd feel safe in a house alone. I would be really scared. I'm the kind of person that when I get up to go use the bathroom I have this big long hallway, and I just know someone's going to jump out and get me.
This is all you have. This is not a dry run. This is your life. If you want to fritter it away with your fears, then you will fritter it away, but you won't get it back later.
Hate is the consequence of fear we fear something before we hate it a child who fears noises becomes a man who hates noise.
Do what you fear and fear disappears.
Slowness to change usually means fear of the new.
By adversity are wrought the greatest works of admiration, and all the fair examples of renown, out of distress and misery are grown.
Nothing gives a fearful man more courage than another's fear.
Great work is done by people who are not afraid to be great.
We fear the thing we want the most.
It is the perpetual dread of fear, the fear of fear, that shapes the face of a brave man.
An ugly sight, a man who is afraid.
Ultimately we know deeply that the other side of every fear is freedom.
Let the fear of danger be a spur to prevent it he that fears not, gives advantage to the danger.
Courage is never to let your actions be influenced by your fears.
We should not be afraid to go into a new era, to leave the old beyond.
Courage is a peculiar kind of fear.
Only when we are no longer afraid do we begin to live.
Don't be afraid to give up the good for the great.
True success is overcoming the fear of being unsuccessful.
One thing about being successful is that I stopped being afraid of dying. Once you're a star you're dead already. You're embalmed.
The mark of fear is not easily removed.
What we have most to fear is failure of the heart.
Fear tastes like a rusty knife and do not let her into your house.
Fear is excitement without breath.
And the things that we fear are a weapon to be held against us.
I hasten to laugh at everything, for fear of being obliged to weep.
A child understands fear, and the hurt and hate it brings.
To fight fear, act. To increase fear - wait, put off postpone.
Show me a guy who's afraid to look bad, and I'll show you a guy you can beat every time.
No good work is ever done while the heart is hot and anxious and fretted.
We consume our tomorrows fretting about our yesterdays.
I think what weakens people most is fear of wasting their strength.
If you let your fear of consequence prevent you from following your deepest instinct, your life will be safe, expedient and thin.
I am convinced that it is not the fear of death, of our lives ending that haunts our sleep so much as the fear... that as far as the world is concerned, we might as well never have lived.
When we are afraid we ought not to occupy ourselves with endeavoring to prove that there is no danger, but in strengthening ourselves to go on in spite of the danger.
In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.
We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face... we must do that which we think we cannot.
When the people fear the government, there is tyranny. When the government fears the people, there is liberty.
You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along.'
I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.
Time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice, but for those who love, time is eternity.
Expose yourself to your deepest fear after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.
The whole secret of existence is to have no fear. Never fear what will become of you, depend on no one. Only the moment you reject all help are you freed.
If people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed.
I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times.
People fear death even more than pain. It's strange that they fear death. Life hurts a lot more than death. At the point of death, the pain is over. Yeah, I guess it is a friend.
We must build dikes of courage to hold back the flood of fear.
The fear of death is the most unjustified of all fears, for there's no risk of accident for someone who's dead.
Faith activates God - Fear activates the Enemy.
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear.
The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.
It was the experience of mystery - even if mixed with fear - that engendered religion.
When one has the feeling of dislike for evil, when one feels tranquil, one finds pleasure in listening to good teachings when one has these feelings and appreciates them, one is free of fear.
Question with boldness even the existence of a God because, if there be one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blind-folded fear.
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
Do not fear mistakes. You will know failure. Continue to reach out.
All religion, my friend, is simply evolved out of fraud, fear, greed, imagination, and poetry.
Do the thing you fear most and the death of fear is certain.
Action and reaction, ebb and flow, trial and error, change - this is the rhythm of living. Out of our over-confidence, fear out of our fear, clearer vision, fresh hope. And out of hope, progress.
We are afraid to care too much, for fear that the other person does not care at all.
Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our Light, not our Darkness, that most frightens us.
Power is of two kinds. One is obtained by the fear of punishment and the other by acts of love. Power based on love is a thousand times more effective and permanent then the one derived from fear of punishment.
If fear is cultivated it will become stronger, if faith is cultivated it will achieve mastery.
If you want to conquer fear, don't sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy.
March on. Do not tarry. To go forward is to move toward perfection. March on, and fear not the thorns, or the sharp stones on life's path.
Fix reason firmly in her seat, and call to her tribunal every fact, every opinion. Question with boldness even the existence of a God because, if there be one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blindfolded fear.
Don't let the fear of striking out hold you back.
Action is a great restorer and builder of confidence. Inaction is not only the result, but the cause, of fear. Perhaps the action you take will be successful perhaps different action or adjustments will have to follow. But any action is better than no action at all.
If you look into your own heart, and you find nothing wrong there, what is there to worry about? What is there to fear?
No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear.
I have no fear that the result of our experiment will be that men may be trusted to govern themselves without a master.
I believe that anyone can conquer fear by doing the things he fears to do, provided he keeps doing them until he gets a record of successful experience behind him.
I don't have no fear of death. My only fear is coming back reincarnated.
If you know the enemy and know yourself you need not fear the results of a hundred battles.
The reserve of modern assertions is sometimes pushed to extremes, in which the fear of being contradicted leads the writer to strip himself of almost all sense and meaning.
Battle is the most magnificent competition in which a human being can indulge. It brings out all that is best it removes all that is base. All men are afraid in battle. The coward is the one who lets his fear overcome his sense of duty. Duty is the essence of manhood.
Advance, and never halt, for advancing is perfection. Advance and do not fear the thorns in the path, for they draw only corrupt blood.
There is not a truth existing which I fear... or would wish unknown to the whole world.
Inaction breeds doubt and fear. Action breeds confidence and courage. If you want to conquer fear, do not sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy.
Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.
My only fear is that I may live too long. This would be a subject of dread to me.
In time we hate that which we often fear.
Love will find a way through paths where wolves fear to prey.
Things done well and with a care, exempt themselves from fear.
Tell your heart that the fear of suffering is worse than the suffering itself. And no heart has ever suffered when it goes in search of its dream.
Have no fear of moving into the unknown. Simply step out fearlessly knowing that I am with you, therefore no harm can befall you all is very, very well. Do this in complete faith and confidence.
Fear has its use but cowardice has none.
Fear of death makes us devoid both of valour and religion. For want of valour is want of religious faith.
Only he can take great resolves who has indomitable faith in God and has fear of God.
He who is overly attached to his family members experiences fear and sorrow, for the root of all grief is attachment. Thus one should discard attachment to be happy.
He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.
Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.
Fear is pain arising from the anticipation of evil.
Fear defeats more people than any other one thing in the world.
When I hear music, I fear no danger. I am invulnerable. I see no foe. I am related to the earliest times, and to the latest.
Have no fear of perfection - you'll never reach it.
When your time comes to die, be not like those whose hearts are filled with fear of death, so that when their time comes they weep and pray for a little more time to live their lives over again in a different way. Sing your death song, and die like a hero going home.
I have gained this from philosophy: that I do without being commanded what others do only from fear of the law.
Do the thing we fear, and death of fear is certain.
It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.
Fear is the mother of morality.
Courage is a mean with regard to fear and confidence.
Nothing is more despicable than respect based on fear.
Limits, like fear, is often an illusion.
The appeal of cinema lies in the fear of death.
The generality of men are naturally apt to be swayed by fear rather than reverence, and to refrain from evil rather because of the punishment that it brings than because of its own foulness.
Men are swayed more by fear than by reverence.
When even one American - who has done nothing wrong - is forced by fear to shut his mind and close his mouth - then all Americans are in peril.
To fear love is to fear life, and those who fear life are already three parts dead.
Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline simulated fear postulates courage simulated weakness postulates strength.
Having a child, that's always been my biggest fear. I want a child and I fear a child.
Fear is stupid. So are regrets.
People living deeply have no fear of death.
So much of what is best in us is bound up in our love of family, that it remains the measure of our stability because it measures our sense of loyalty. All other pacts of love or fear derive from it and are modeled upon it.
This world of ours... must avoid becoming a community of dreadful fear and hate, and be, instead, a proud confederation of mutual trust and respect.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
The day which we fear as our last is but the birthday of eternity.
I never dared to be radical when young for fear it would make me conservative when old.
The time to take counsel of your fears is before you make an important battle decision. That's the time to listen to every fear you can imagine! When you have collected all the facts and fears and made your decision, turn off all your fears and go ahead!
As soon as the fear approaches near, attack and destroy it.
The components of anxiety, stress, fear, and anger do not exist independently of you in the world. They simply do not exist in the physical world, even though we talk about them as if they do.
The world we see that seems so insane is the result of a belief system that is not working. To perceive the world differently, we must be willing to change our belief system, let the past slip away, expand our sense of now, and dissolve the fear in our minds.
Love takes off masks that we fear we cannot live without and know we cannot live within.
Where there is reverence there is fear, but there is not reverence everywhere that there is fear, because fear presumably has a wider extension than reverence.
You are going to let the fear of poverty govern you life and your reward will be that you will eat, but you will not live.
On every front there are clear answers out there that can make this country stronger, but we're going to break through the fear and the frustration people are feeling. Our job is to make sure that even as we make progress, that we are also giving people a sense of hope and vision for the future.
I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear.
No work or love will flourish out of guilt, fear, or hollowness of heart, just as no valid plans for the future can be made by those who have no capacity for living now.
It's the most unhappy people who most fear change.
The more you can increase fear of drugs and crime, welfare mothers, immigrants and aliens, the more you control all the people.
Courageous people do not fear forgiving, for the sake of peace.
People always fear change. People feared electricity when it was invented, didn't they? People feared coal, they feared gas-powered engines... There will always be ignorance, and ignorance leads to fear. But with time, people will come to accept their silicon masters.
There is nothing I fear more than waking up without a program that will help me bring a little happiness to those with no resources, those who are poor, illiterate, and ridden with terminal disease.
Fear is the thought of admitted inferiority.
The thing we fear we bring to pass.
Fear clogs faith liberates.
Courage is knowing what not to fear.
When the tyrant has disposed of foreign enemies by conquest or treaty, and there is nothing more to fear from them, then he is always stirring up some war or other, in order that the people may require a leader.
As we let our light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence actually liberates others.
We need to teach the next generation of children from day one that they are responsible for their lives. Mankind's greatest gift, also its greatest curse, is that we have free choice. We can make our choices built from love or from fear.
The world is full of a lot of fear and a lot of negativity, and a lot of judgment. I just think people need to start shifting into joy and happiness. As corny as it sounds, we need to make a shift.
Fear makes strangers of people who would be friends.
Fear doesn't exist anywhere except in the mind.
Do the thing you fear to do and keep on doing it... that is the quickest and surest way ever yet discovered to conquer fear.
Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.
Fear cannot be without hope nor hope without fear.
If we take the generally accepted definition of bravery as a quality which knows no fear, I have never seen a brave man. All men are frightened. The more intelligent they are, the more they are frightened.
A man who is not afraid is not aggressive, a man who has no sense of fear of any kind is really a free, a peaceful man.
What I needed most was to love and to be loved, eager to be caught. Happily I wrapped those painful bonds around me and sure enough, I would be lashed with the red-hot pokers or jealousy, by suspicions and fear, by burst of anger and quarrels.
Writing is a form of therapy sometimes I wonder how all those who do not write, compose or paint can manage to escape the madness, melancholia, the panic and fear which is inherent in a human situation.
The safest course is to do nothing against one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and have no fear from death.
The key to success is to focus our conscious mind on things we desire not things we fear.
Our heavenly Father understands our disappointment, suffering, pain, fear, and doubt. He is always there to encourage our hearts and help us understand that He's sufficient for all of our needs. When I accepted this as an absolute truth in my life, I found that my worrying stopped.
The thing you fear most has no power. Your fear of it is what has the power. Facing the truth really will set you free.
Fear of death increases in exact proportion to increase in wealth.
The people to fear are not those who disagree with you, but those who disagree with you and are too cowardly to let you know.
Injustice is censured because the censures are afraid of suffering, and not from any fear which they have of doing injustice.
Fear of something is at the root of hate for others, and hate within will eventually destroy the hater.
Know one knows whether death, which people fear to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good.
To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom.
The one permanent emotion of the inferior man is fear - fear of the unknown, the complex, the inexplicable. What he wants above everything else is safety.
The moment we begin to fear the opinions of others and hesitate to tell the truth that is in us, and from motives of policy are silent when we should speak, the divine floods of light and life no longer flow into our souls.
Men are moved by two levers only: fear and self interest.
The beauty, the poetry of the fear in their eyes. I didn't mind going to jail for, what, five, six hours? It was absolutely worth it.
You can conquer almost any fear if you will only make up your mind to do so. For remember, fear doesn't exist anywhere except in the mind.
Fear not those who argue but those who dodge.
Never let the fear of striking out get in your way.
God will never direct us to be prideful, arrogant and unforgiving, immoral or slothful or full of fear. We step into these things because we are insensitive to the leadership of the Holy Spirit within us.
Don't let the fear of the time it will take to accomplish something stand in the way of your doing it. The time will pass anyway we might just as well put that passing time to the best possible use.
Fear is the foundation of most governments.
Fear follows crime and is its punishment.
Boredom is... a vital problem for the moralist, since half the sins of mankind are caused by the fear of it.
Americans are in a cycle of fear which leads to people not wanting to spend and not wanting to make investments, and that leads to more fear. We'll break out of it. It takes time.
I more fear what is within me than what comes from without.
The meaning I picked, the one that changed my life: Overcome fear, behold wonder.
The strength and power of despotism consists wholly in the fear of resistance.
Fear is the passion of slaves.
It's an interesting combination: Having a great fear of being alone, and having a desperate need for solitude and the solitary experience. That's always been a tug of war for me.
Puritanism. The haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy.
Where there is charity and wisdom, there is neither fear nor ignorance.
Whether you like it or not, you're forced to come to the realisation that death is out there. But I don't fear death, I'm a fatalist. I believe when it's your time, that's it. It's the hand you're dealt.
America was not built on fear. America was built on courage, on imagination and an unbeatable determination to do the job at hand.
Look not mournfully into the past, it comes not back again. Wisely improve the present, it is thine. Go forth to meet the shadowy future without fear and with a manly heart.
The greatest mistake we make is living in constant fear that we will make one.
Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources of cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom.
The Cuban people still live in constant fear of a brutal totalitarian regime that has demonstrated time and again its utter disregard for basic human dignity. The fight for a free Cuba has gone on for far too long.
I was set free because my greatest fear had been realized, and I still had a daughter who I adored, and I had an old typewriter and a big idea. And so rock bottom became a solid foundation on which I rebuilt my life.
I will show you fear in a handful of dust.
I do not fear computers. I fear the lack of them.
Listen to what you know instead of what you fear.
It is almost universally felt that when we call a country democratic we are praising it consequently, the defenders of every kind of regime claim that it is a democracy, and fear that they might have to stop using the word if it were tied down to any one meaning.
It is part of the general pattern of misguided policy that our country is now geared to an arms economy which was bred in an artificially induced psychosis of war hysteria and nurtured upon an incessant propaganda of fear.
There is a time to take counsel of your fears, and there is a time to never listen to any fear.
I love the name of honor, more than I fear death.
Men shrink less from offending one who inspires love than one who inspires fear.
Collective fear stimulates herd instinct, and tends to produce ferocity toward those who are not regarded as members of the herd.
Where fear is, happiness is not.
I write for those women who do not speak, for those who do not have a voice because they were so terrified, because we are taught to respect fear more than ourselves. We've been taught that silence would save us, but it won't.
Poverty entails fear and stress and sometimes depression. It meets a thousand petty humiliations and hardships. Climbing out of poverty by your own efforts that is something on which to pride yourself but poverty itself is romanticized by fools.
Do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric.
My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
You must not fear death, my lads defy him, and you drive him into the enemy's ranks.
Neither a man nor a crowd nor a nation can be trusted to act humanely or to think sanely under the influence of a great fear.
Unless India stands up to the world, no one will respect us. In this world, fear has no place. Only strength respects strength.
Live your life that the fear of death can never enter your heart.
None but a coward dares to boast that he has never known fear.
There are only two forces that unite men - fear and interest.
Those who own much have much to fear.
Religion. A daughter of Hope and Fear, explaining to Ignorance the nature of the Unknowable.
Our government has kept us in a perpetual state of fear - kept us in a continuous stampede of patriotic fervor - with the cry of grave national emergency.
The weeds keep multiplying in our garden, which is our mind ruled by fear. Rip them out and call them by name.
Fear is not in the habit of speaking truth when perfect sincerity is expected, perfect freedom must be allowed nor has anyone who is apt to be angry when he hears the truth any cause to wonder that he does not hear it.
Why are we so full of restraint? Why do we not give in all directions? Is it fear of losing ourselves? Until we do lose ourselves there is no hope of finding ourselves.
There is none made so great, but he may both need the help and service, and stand in fear of the power and unkindness, even of the meanest of mortals.
Fear? If I have gained anything by damning myself, it is that I no longer have anything to fear.
I hope for nothing. I fear nothing. I am free.
The constant assertion of belief is an indication of fear.
You feel sometimes when you hear analysts and knowledgeable people talking about Iran that they fear so much about the survival of the regime, because deep down it's not a legitimate regime, it doesn't represent the will of the people, it's kind of morphed into kind of a military theocracy.
I do respect people's faith, but I don't respect their manipulation of that faith in order to create fear and control.
It is better for you to be free of fear lying upon a pallet, than to have a golden couch and a rich table and be full of trouble.
Jealousy is the fear of comparison.
Our party must continue to strike fear in the heart of the white man, our real enemy!
We're taught to be ashamed of confusion, anger, fear and sadness, and to me they're of equal value to happiness, excitement and inspiration.
The heart never grows better by age I fear rather worse, always harder. A young liar will be an old one, and a young knave will only be a greater knave as he grows older.
It is not death or pain that is to be dreaded, but the fear of pain or death.
Just as courage imperils life, fear protects it.
Fear may come true that which one is afraid of.
The more knowledge you have, the greater will be your fear of Allah.
Let us not look back in anger, nor forward in fear, but around in awareness.
In itself, homosexuality is as limiting as heterosexuality: the ideal should be to be capable of loving a woman or a man either, a human being, without feeling fear, restraint, or obligation.
Our society must make it right and possible for old people not to fear the young or be deserted by them, for the test of a civilization is the way that it cares for its helpless members.
In a World where people are surrounded by darkness, ignorance and fear, it is a sign of hope to be celebrating Islam's message of peace and light, and the last great Messenger, born and chosen to deliver them to all mankind.
Power does not corrupt. Fear corrupts... perhaps the fear of a loss of power.
Everywhere that freedom stirs, let tyrants fear.
It is an open question whether any behavior based on fear of eternal punishment can be regarded as ethical or should be regarded as merely cowardly.
Thinking will not overcome fear but action will.
Repentance is not so much remorse for what we have done as the fear of the consequences.
African women in general need to know that it's OK for them to be the way they are - to see the way they are as a strength, and to be liberated from fear and from silence.
Taking a new step, uttering a new word, is what people fear most.
I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve.
In order to properly understand the big picture, everyone should fear becoming mentally clouded and obsessed with one small section of truth.
No passion so effectually robs the mind of all its powers of acting and reasoning as fear.
At the end of the day, we must go forward with hope and not backward by fear and division.
Few women, I fear, have had such reason as I have to think the long sad years of youth were worth living for the sake of middle age.
Do not fear death so much but rather the inadequate life.
Let the fear of a danger be a spur to prevent it he that fears not, gives advantage to the danger.
He whose head is in heaven need not fear to put his feet into the grave.
Fear is not a lasting teacher of duty.
Only the contemptible fear contempt.
Love can no more continue without a constant motion than fire can and when once you take hope and fear away, you take from it its very life and being.
Comedy is defiance. It's a snort of contempt in the face of fear and anxiety. And it's the laughter that allows hope to creep back on the inhale.
Fear is exciting for me.
The fear really hits you. That's what you feel first. And then it's the anger and frustration. Part of the problem is how little we understand about the ultimate betrayal of the body when it rebels against itself.
Fear not for the future, weep not for the past.
Our country is now geared to an arms economy bred in an artificially induced psychosis of war hysteria and an incessant propaganda of fear.
I don't fear death because I don't fear anything I don't understand. When I start to think about it, I order a massage and it goes away.
The only failure one should fear, is not hugging to the purpose they see as best.
I'm proof against that word failure. I've seen behind it. The only failure a man ought to fear is failure of cleaving to the purpose he sees to be best.
It is not these well-fed long-haired men that I fear, but the pale and the hungry-looking.
I have no fear of making changes, destroying the image, etc., because the painting has a life of its own.
The way to develop self-confidence is to do the thing you fear and get a record of successful experiences behind you.
I fear my enthusiasm flags when real work is demanded of me.
Seeing that a Pilot steers the ship in which we sail, who will never allow us to perish even in the midst of shipwrecks, there is no reason why our minds should be overwhelmed with fear and overcome with weariness.
Hopeful thinking can get you out of your fear zone and into your appreciation zone.
Americans are apocalyptic by nature. The reason why is that we've always had so much, so we live in deadly fear that people are going to take it away from us.
They who have conquered doubt and fear have conquered failure.
Follow the path of the unsafe, independent thinker. Expose your ideas to the dangers of controversy. Speak your mind and fear less the label of 'crackpot' than the stigma of conformity. And on issues that seem important to you, stand up and be counted at any cost.
Courage consists not in hazarding without fear but being resolutely minded in a just cause.
We fear to know the fearsome and unsavory aspects of ourselves, but we fear even more to know the godlike in ourselves.
The public is not to see where power lies, how it shapes policy, and for what ends. Rather, people are to hate and fear one another.
As you know from school, it's when you have not prepared for the test that you have the fear of failing. And if you have prepared, even if you fail, you've done your best.
We shall never be able to remove suspicion and fear as potential causes of war until communication is permitted to flow, free and open, across international boundaries.
Don't fear failure so much that you refuse to try new things. The saddest summary of a life contains three descriptions: could have, might have, and should have.
My fear was not of death itself, but a death without meaning.
I have no fear of losing my life - if I have to save a koala or a crocodile or a kangaroo or a snake, mate, I will save it.
Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark and as that natural fear in children is increased by tales, so is the other.
If you fear making anyone mad, then you ultimately probe for the lowest common denominator of human achievement.
While we are focusing on fear, worry, or hate, it is not possible for us to be experiencing happiness, enthusiasm or love.
Fear comes from uncertainty. When we are absolutely certain, whether of our worth or worthlessness, we are almost impervious to fear.
The fate of animals is of greater importance to me than the fear of appearing ridiculous it is indissolubly connected with the fate of men.
I'm intimidated by the fear of being average.
Exploiting people's emotions of fear, envy and anxiety is not hope, it's not change, it's partisanship. We don't need partisanship. We don't need demagoguery, we need solutions.
Some men love truth so much that they seem to be in continual fear lest she should catch a cold on overexposure.
The course of this conflict is not known, yet its outcome is certain. Freedom and fear, justice and cruelty, have always been at war, and we know that God is not neutral between them.
The hope and change the Democrats had in mind was nothing more than a retread of the failed and discredited socialist policies that have been the enemy of freedom for centuries all over the world. I fear America is teetering towards tyranny.
If I die a violent death, as some fear and a few are plotting, I know that the violence will be in the thought and the action of the assassins, not in my dying.
The voice of the intelligence is drowned out by the roar of fear. It is ignored by the voice of desire. It is contradicted by the voice of shame. It is biased by hate and extinguished by anger. Most of all it is silenced by ignorance.
I do not fear Satan half so much as I fear those who fear him.
I can't understand people calling themselves religious and being hateful. If a preacher is preaching hate, to fear God that's not religion, that's not helping humanity, that's organizing an army to defeat somebody.
The thing I fear most is fear.
To have a great man for a friend seems pleasant to those who have never tried it those who have, fear it.
The Christian fear of the pagan outlook has damaged the whole consciousness of man.
Fear is, I believe, a most effective tool in destroying the soul of an individual - and the soul of a people.
How very little can be done under the spirit of fear.
Do not look upon this world with fear and loathing. Bravely face whatever the gods offer.
Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself.
Stories can conquer fear, you know. They can make the heart bigger.
This man is freed from servile bands, Of hope to rise, or fear to fall Lord of himself, though not of lands, And leaving nothing, yet hath all.
From too much love of living, From hope and fear set free, We thank with brief thanksgiving Whatever gods may be That no life lives for ever That dead men rise up never That even the weariest river Winds somewhere safe to sea.
Willpower is the key to success. Successful people strive no matter what they feel by applying their will to overcome apathy, doubt or fear.
Scalded cats fear even cold water.
Cruelty is a tyrant that's always attended with fear.
It is not power that corrupts but fear. Fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it and fear of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it.
The thirst for powerful sensations takes the upper hand both over fear and over compassion for the grief of others.
People react to fear, not love they don't teach that in Sunday School, but it's true.
Realists do not fear the results of their study.
When the will defies fear, when duty throws the gauntlet down to fate, when honor scorns to compromise with death - that is heroism.
As soon as men know that they can kill without fear of punishment or blame, they kill or at least they encourage killers with approving smiles.
All religions are founded on the fear of the many and the cleverness of the few.
To good and true love fear is forever affixed.
Events that are predestined require but little management. They manage themselves. They slip into place while we sleep, and suddenly we are aware that the thing we fear to attempt, is already accomplished.
Therefore, when I considered this carefully, the contempt which I had to fear because of the novelty and apparent absurdity of my view, nearly induced me to abandon utterly the work I had begun.
For fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
A word does not frighten the man who, in acting, feels no fear.
Worry is a cycle of inefficient thoughts whirling around a center of fear.
Perhaps life is just that... a dream and a fear.
I really believe that all of us have a lot of darkness in our souls. Anger, rage, fear, sadness. I don't think that's only reserved for people who have horrible upbringings. I think it really exists and is part of the human condition. I think in the course of your life you figure out ways to deal with that.
Liberalism is trust of the people tempered by prudence. Conservatism is distrust of the people tempered by fear.
There is nothing strange about fear: no matter in what guise it presents itself it is something with which we are all so familiar that when a man appears who is without it we are at once enslaved by him.
Everything we do in life is based on fear, especially love.
I have a lack of fear, whereas in the past the fear of failure was a powerful motivator. Anyway, I have great expectations for the future, but I just don't know if I'm the monarch of all I survey.
Fear not, the people may be deluded for a moment, but cannot be corrupted.
The results of political changes are hardly ever those which their friends hope or their foes fear.
I do not say think as I think, but think in my way. Fear no shadows, least of all in that great spectre of personal unhappiness which binds half the world to orthodoxy.
When a child can be brought to tears, and not from fear of punishment, but from repentance he needs no chastisement. When the tears begin to flow from the grief of their conduct you can be sure there is an angel nestling in their heart.
No one should fear to undertake any task in the name of our Saviour, if it is just and if the intention is purely for His holy service.
Fear not, we are of the nature of the lion, and cannot descend to the destruction of mice and such small beasts.
I don't run away from a challenge because I am afraid. Instead, I run toward it because the only way to escape fear is to trample it beneath your feet.
Falsehood is invariably the child of fear in one form or another.
There is great beauty in going through life without anxiety or fear. Half our fears are baseless, and the other half discreditable.
Fear is the lengthened shadow of ignorance.
The scariest thought in the world is that someday I'll wake up and realize I've been sleepwalking through my life: underappreciating the people I love, making the same hurtful mistakes over and over, a slave to neuroses, fear, and the habitual.
That fear first created the gods is perhaps as true as anything so brief could be on so great a subject.
To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong.
Men! The only animal in the world to fear.
The fear of death often proves mortal, and sets people on methods to save their Lives, which infallibly destroy them.
Everyone has his faults which he continually repeats: neither fear nor shame can cure them.
Loving can cost a lot but not loving always costs more, and those who fear to love often find that want of love is an emptiness that robs the joy from life.
Fear is proof of a degenerate mind.
President Obama clearly cannot run on his record. All he's offering is more of the same. That's not good. Look at the economy. It's stagnating. And so, what they're now going to try and do is bring this campaign down to little things, distractions, distortions, smear, fear, anger, frustration.
The secret of life is to have no fear it's the only way to function.
Cruelty is softened by fear, not pity.
Satirists gain the applause of others through fear, not through love.
It is better by noble boldness to run the risk of being subject to half the evils we anticipate than to remain in cowardly listlessness for fear of what might happen.
Discipline is based on pride, on meticulous attention to details, and on mutual respect and confidence. Discipline must be a habit so ingrained that it is stronger than the excitement of the goal or the fear of failure.
To talk about balance, it's easier to talk about what's out of balance. And I think anytime that you have any disease, and disease meaning lack of ease, lack of flow... dis-ease. So any time there's disease, you're out of balance, whether it's jealousy, anger, greed, anxiety, fear.
I had used eclectic therapy and behavior therapy on myself at the age of 19 to get over my fear of public speaking and of approaching young women in public.
Almost all the ideas we have about being a man or being a woman are so burdened with pain, anxiety, fear and self-doubt. For many of us, the confusion around this question is excruciating.
Basically, there are two paths you can walk: faith or fear. It's impossible to simultaneously trust God and not trust God.
Do not fear mistakes. There are none.
Fear is the tax that conscience pays to guilt.
A peace that depends on fear is nothing but a suppressed war.
Love and fear. Everything the father of a family says must inspire one or the other.
While there's life, there's fear.
To work without attachment is to work without the expectation of reward or fear of any punishment in this world or the next. Work so done is a means to the end, and God is the end.
It is a base thing for a man among the people not to obey those in command. Never in a state can the laws be well administered when fear does not stand firm.
But what is all this fear of and opposition to Oblivion? What is the matter with the soft Darkness, the Dreamless Sleep?
The terrorists are fighting freedom with all their cunning and cruelty because freedom is their greatest fear - and they should be afraid, because freedom is on the march.
When women hold off from marrying men, we call it independence. When men hold off from marrying women, we call it fear of commitment.
Nature soaks every evil with either fear or shame.
There is greatness in the fear of God, contentment in faith of God, and honour in humility.
My aim, then, was to whip the rebels, to humble their pride, to follow them to their inmost recesses, and make them fear and dread us. Fear is the beginning of wisdom.
Follow the path of the unsafe, independent thinker. Expose your ideas to the danger of controversy. Speak your mind and fear less the label of 'crackpot' than the stigma of conformity.
Healthy children will not fear life if their elders have integrity enough not to fear death.
Love casts out fear, but we have to get over the fear in order to get close enough to love them.
Grab the broom of anger and drive off the beast of fear.
If you reject the food, ignore the customs, fear the religion and avoid the people, you might better stay at home.
The fear of death comes from limited awareness.
I fear the boredom that comes with not learning and not taking chances.
It is a great mystery that though the human heart longs for Truth, in which alone it finds liberation and delight, the first reaction of human beings to Truth is one of hostility and fear!
Boldness is a mask for fear, however great.
My fear is that I go up to the girl of my dreams and say 'I'm sorry, but I've got to say hello to you,' and she slides the stool back and gets up and walks away, saying, 'Not for me, Bub. I don't want anything to do with you.'
My feelings for Ellen overrode all of my fear about being out as a lesbian. I had to be with her, and I just figured I'd deal with the other stuff later.
It's not necessary to fear the prospect of failure but to be determined not to fail.
When desire dies, fear is born.
Fear is the dark room where the Devil develops his negatives.
A propensity to hope and joy is real riches one to fear and sorrow real poverty.
Most men are very attached to the idea of being male, and usually experience a lot of fear and insecurity around the idea of being a man. Most women are very identified with their gender, and also experience a tremendous amount of fear and insecurity.
Luck is everything... My good luck in life was to be a really frightened person. I'm fortunate to be a coward, to have a low threshold of fear, because a hero couldn't make a good suspense film.
Death is not the biggest fear we have our biggest fear is taking the risk to be alive - the risk to be alive and express what we really are.
The wise person often shuns society for fear of being bored.
People are afraid, and when people are afraid, when their pie is shrinking, they look for somebody to hate. They look for somebody to blame. And a real leader speaks to anxiety and to fear and allays those fears, assuages anxiety.
When you're young, you're always wondering when you're actually going to feel like a grownup. And I think you probably fear it, in a sense, too. There's a danger to feeling like an adult... like this whimsical kid in you is going to die or something. And then all of a sudden, one day you kind of feel like an adult and it's really nice.
You pretend to be more eccentric than you actually are because you fear you are an interchangeable cog.
I am so tired of fear. And I don't want my girls to live in a country, in a world, based on fear.
I know not why there is such a melancholy feeling attached to the remembrance of past happiness, except that we fear that the future can have nothing so bright as the past.
How strange this fear of death is! We are never frightened at a sunset.
I get so nervous on stage I can't help but talk. I try. I try telling my brain: stop sending words to the mouth. But I get nervous and turn into my grandma. Behind the eyes it's pure fear. I find it difficult to believe I'm going to be able to deliver.
The reason most people don't express their individuality and actually deny it, is not fear of what prime ministers think of us or the head of the federal reserve, It's what their families and their friends down at the bar are going to think of them.
Good men have the fewest fears. He has but one great fear who fears to do wrong he has a thousand who has overcome it.
The Russians feared Ike. They didn't fear me.
I have accepted fear as a part of life - specifically the fear of change... I have gone ahead despite the pounding in the heart that says: turn back.
To have a great man for an intimate friend seems pleasant to those who have never tried it those who have, fear it.
A fear of the unknown keeps a lot of people from leaving bad situations.
Even as we enumerate their shortcomings, the rigor of raising children ourselves makes clear to us our mothers' incredible strength. We fear both. If they are not strong, who will protect us? If they are not imperfect, how can we equal them?
When someone says that I'm angry it's actually a compliment. I have not always been direct with my anger in my relationships, which is part of why I'd write about it in my songs because I had such fear around expressing anger as a woman.
The origin of the absurd idea of immortal life is easy to discover it is kept alive by hope and fear, by childish faith, and by cowardice.
No one should have to choose between medicine and other necessities. No one should have to use the emergency room every time a child gets sick. And no one should have to live in constant fear that a medical problem will become a financial crisis.
Our government is founded upon the intelligence of the people. I for one do not despair of the republic. I have great confidence in the virtue of the great majority of the people, and I cannot fear the result.
It is wisdom in prosperity, when all is as thou wouldn't have it, to fear and suspect the worst.
I expect nothing. I fear no one. I am free.
So the Marine Corps really did teach me to conquer fear, and then to go for higher causes, higher purposes.
Generosity during life is a very different thing from generosity in the hour of death one proceeds from genuine liberality and benevolence, the other from pride or fear.
Young players need freedom of expression to develop as creative players... they should be encouraged to try skills without fear of failure.
Jealousy is the fear or apprehension of superiority: envy our uneasiness under it.
I just want my family to be safe. Because I am sometimes polarizing, I fear for their safety.
To overcome a fear, here's all you have to do: realize the fear is there, and do the action you fear anyway.
To me, my biggest fear is getting a big head, and that is when I get the hammer. Because it's very easy in this game to believe you're something special.
I think we too often make choices based on the safety of cynicism, and what we're lead to is a life not fully lived. Cynicism is fear, and it's worse than fear - it's active disengagement.
A cheerful frame of mind, reinforced by relaxation... is the medicine that puts all ghosts of fear on the run.
When you are 16 there is no fear whatsoever. As you get older you play in more important games and that is when you start thinking about what will happen if you win or lose.
Let us banish fear.
Valor grows by daring, fear by holding back.
When a match has equal partners then I fear not.
Excessive fear is always powerless.
Fear of serious injury alone cannot justify oppression of free speech and assembly. Men feared witches and burnt women. It is the function of speech to free men from the bondage of irrational fears.
Humility is a great quality of leadership which derives respect and not just fear or hatred.
Dare to be honest and fear no labor.
Audacity augments courage hesitation, fear.
I have this fear of falling in front of large groups of people. That's why I tend not to wear heels.
No person who is enthusiastic about his work has anything to fear from life.
Everyone believes very easily whatever they fear or desire.
An important consequence of freeing oneself from the fear of death is a radical opening to spirituality of a universal and non-denominational type.
If you have an issue with homosexuality, then it comes to your own fear and your own darkness.
I think 'Dilbert' will remain popular as long as employees are frustrated and they fear the consequences of complaining too loudly. 'Dilbert' is the designated voice of discontent for the workplace. I never planned it that way. It just happened.
No society has been able to abolish human sadness, no political system can deliver us from the pain of living, from our fear of death, our thirst for the absolute. It is the human condition that directs the social condition, not vice versa.
If we fear the unknown then surely we fear ourselves.
Love is the total absence of fear. Love asks no questions. Its natural state is one of extension and expansion, not comparison and measurement.
There is no such thing as perpetual tranquillity of mind while we live here because life itself is but motion, and can never be without desire, nor without fear, no more than without sense.
If you can once engage people's pride, love, pity, ambition on your side, you need not fear what their reason can do against you.
I fear those big words which make us so unhappy.
The strongest passion is fear.
We must laugh before we are happy, for fear we die before we laugh at all.
The fear of burglars is not only the fear of being robbed, but also the fear of a sudden and unexpected clutch out of the darkness.
I don't know how it is for women or for other guys, but when I was young and in my 20s, I had a fear of marriage.
Quite a lot of our contemporary culture is actually shot through with a resentment of limits and the passage of time, anger at what we can't do, fear or even disgust at growing old.
I don't have any fear of intimacy, but rather thrive on it, which is rare in a public person.
Monopolists who fear competition and who distrust democracy because it stands for equal opportunity would like to secure their position against small and energetic enterprise.
Don't fear change - embrace it.
Fear prophets and those prepared to die for the truth, for as a rule they make many others die with them, often before them, at times instead of them.
The fear of being deceived is the vulgar version of the quest for Truth.
In the company of the accomplished, people hope it will rub off on themselves, in the company of the misfortunate, they fear it!
Under the influence of fear, which always leads men to take a pessimistic view of things, they magnified their enemies' resources, and minimized their own.
Between the fear that something would happen and the hope that still it wouldn't, there is much more space than one thinks. On that narrow, hard, bare and dark space a lot of us spend their lives.
Do we fear terrorism so much that we throw out our Constitution, and are we unwilling and afraid to debate our Constitution?
Wit is so shining a quality that everybody admires it most people aim at it, all people fear it, and few love it unless in themselves. A man must have a good share of wit himself to endure a great share of it in another.
If I have resistance to something, it means there's something wrong. The resistance to me is a sign of fear.
Action cures fear, inaction creates terror.
I have no fear of death. More important, I don't fear life.
He has not learned the first lesson of life who does not every day surmount a fear.
Within the U.S., the Obama presidency will be mainly measured by the success or failure of his economic policies. And here, I fear, the monstrous stimulus package with which this administration stumbled out of the gate will prove to be Obama's Waterloo.
When we drop fear, we can draw nearer to people, we can draw nearer to the earth, we can draw nearer to all the heavenly creatures that surround us.
My aim then was to whip the rebels, to humble their pride, to follow them to their inmost recesses, and make them fear and dread us.
I've always felt that if you back down from a fear, the ghost of that fear never goes away. It diminishes people.
I was probably more scared of my high school exams than I was of the Oscars. At the time you think it's everything and if you don't do well, your life's over. Opportunities are gone. So the more you do it, the less the fear is present.
I am pretty fearless, and you know why? Because I don't handle fear very well I'm not a good terrified person.
How does one kill fear, I wonder? How do you shoot a specter through the heart, slash off its spectral head, take it by its spectral throat?
Love is a symbol of eternity. It wipes out all sense of time, destroying all memory of a beginning and all fear of an end.
You always have two choices: your commitment versus your fear.
What I fear most is power with impunity. I fear abuse of power, and the power to abuse.
Right out of high school I never had the fear of getting beat, which is how most people lose.
Crime in full glory consolidates authority by the sacred fear it inspires.
Isn't history ultimately the result of our fear of boredom?
The abandoned infant's cry is rage, not fear.
Fear is a disease that eats away at logic and makes man inhuman.
It seemed that rebellion must have an unassailable base, something guarded not merely from attack, but from the fear of it: such a base as we had in the Red Sea Parts, the desert, or in the minds of the men we converted to our creed.
There are few things more liberating in this life than having your worst fear realized.
Fear is the foundation of safety.
I do not trust those who make the vaccines, or the apparatus behind it all to push it on us through fear.
I believe the American people have a genuine and justifiable fear of government intrusion in what they instinctively know is going to be an ever more intrusive world.
We should face reality and our past mistakes in an honest, adult way. Boasting of glory does not make glory, and singing in the dark does not dispel fear.
I have been thinking about the notion of perfect love as being without fear, and what that means for us in a world that's becoming increasingly xenophobic, tortured by fundamentalism and nationalism.
Love, hope, fear, faith - these make humanity These are its sign and note and character.
And if the great fear had not come upon me, as it did, and forced me to do my duty, I might have been less good to the people than some man who had never dreamed at all, even with the memory of so great a vision in me.
I've always had a huge fear of dying or becoming ill. The thing I'm most afraid of, though, is being alone, which I think a lot of performers fear. It's why we seek the limelight - so we're not alone, were adored. We're loved, so people want to be around us. The fear of being alone drives my life.
You have to be careful not to let your fear stop you doing things. It's very exciting to test yourself.
We must laugh before we are happy, for fear of dying without having laughed at all.
We should laugh before being happy, for fear of dying without having laughed.
Fear God and work hard.
The more I traveled the more I realized that fear makes strangers of people who should be friends.
Many of us crucify ourselves between two thieves - regret for the past and fear of the future.
A company is stronger if it is bound by love rather than by fear.
I don't want the fear of failure to stop me from doing what I really care about.
Death in itself is nothing but we fear to be we know not what, we know not where.
Those who love to be feared fear to be loved.
Fear cannot be banished, but it can be calm and without panic it can be mitigated by reason and evaluation.
I've noticed a lot of younger artists have less fear of doing different sorts of things, whether it's various types of music, or gallery artists moving between video and sculpture and drawing.
The fear of life is the favorite disease of the 20th century.
There's no reason for the establishment to fear me. But it has every right to fear the people collectively - I am one with the people.
It is a measure of the framers' fear that a passing majority might find it expedient to compromise 4th Amendment values that these values were embodied in the Constitution itself.
"Freedom from fear' could be said to sum up the whole philosophy of human rights.;Dag Hammarskjold;fear
22245;I have always been aware that you have to get people listening before you can change their minds. Any artist's big fear is being ignored, so if you get debate, that's great.;Damien Hirst;fear
22246;A book is the only place in which you can examine a fragile thought without breaking it, or explore an explosive idea without fear it will go off in your face. It is one of the few havens remaining where a man's mind can get both provocation and privacy.;Edward P. Morgan;fear
22247;I spoke without fear of contradiction. I simply did not suffer self-doubt.;Elia Kazan;fear
22248;I've probably earned the right to screw up a few times. I don't want the fear of failure to stop me from doing what I really care about.;Emma Watson;fear
22249;There's an honesty in our family - my kids and I are able to talk about things without me putting the fear of God into them.;Billie Joe Armstrong;fear
22250;Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. Worry, fear, self-distrust bows the heart and turns the spirit back to dust.;Samuel Ullman;fear
22251;When I have a camera in my hand, I know no fear.;Alfred Eisenstaedt;fear
22252;There is perhaps nothing so bad and so dangerous in life as fear.;Jawaharlal Nehru;fear
22253;Fear is the mother of foresight.;Thomas Hardy;fear
22254;The real and effectual discipline which is exercised over a workman is that of his customers. It is the fear of losing their employment which restrains his frauds and corrects his negligence.;Adam Smith;fear
22255;Greed, like the love of comfort, is a kind of fear.;Cyril Connolly;fear
22256;He who doesn't fear death dies only once.;Giovanni Falcone;fear
22257;The great fear that hung over the business community in the 1970s was death by regulation, and the great goal of the conservative movement, as it rose to triumph in the 1980s, was to remove that threat - to keep OSHA, the EPA, and the FTC from choking off entrepreneurship with their infernal meddling in the marketplace.;Thomas Frank;fear
22258;One of the scary things is that, when you're a kid, you look at your dad as the man who has no fear. When you're an adult, you realize your father had fear, and that you have it, too.;David Duchovny;fear
22259;The fear factor actually brings the genuineness.;Ang Lee;fear
22260;In politics, what begins in fear usually ends in failure.;Samuel Taylor Coleridge;fear
22261;I would sum up my fear about the future in one word: boring. And that's my one fear: that everything has happened nothing exciting or new or interesting is ever going to happen again... the future is just going to be a vast, conforming suburb of the soul.;J. G. Ballard;fear
22262;I think when you move past your fear and you go after your dreams wholeheartedly, you become free.;LL Cool J;fear
22263;A star on a movie set is like a time bomb. That bomb has got to be defused so people can approach it without fear.;Jack Nicholson;fear
22264;My whole life I've had the fear that I was going to be abandoned.;Halle Berry;fear
22265;I think one of the terrible things today is that people have this deathly fear of food: fear of eggs, say, or fear of butter. Most doctors feel that you can have a little bit of everything.;Julia Child;fear
22266;I won't allow myself to have tremendous fear.;Calvin Klein;fear
22267;Any fear of aging, I think, is simply vanity.;Leighton Meester;fear
22268;Mysticism and exaggeration go together. A mystic must not fear ridicule if he is to push all the way to the limits of humility or the limits of delight.;Milan Kundera;fear
22269;I fear God and next to God I mostly fear them that fear him not.;Saadi;fear
22270;Some people need to stay at the top. They are afraid to re-start from zero because they fear the critics.;Eric Cantona;fear
22271;There is no greater hell than to be a prisoner of fear.;Ben Jonson;fear
22272;As long as enough people can be frightened, then all people can be ruled. That is how it works in a democratic system and mass fear becomes the ticket to destroy rights across the board.;James Bovard;fear
22273;My biggest fear in life is to be forgotten.;Evita Peron;fear
22274;We all have that burning question about what happens if we lose somebody we love, especially if we lose them tragically. We wonder what fear was going on, we wonder if we could have reached out and touched them, held their hand, looked in their eyes, been there.;Kevin Costner;fear
22275;To withdraw is not to run away, and to stay is no wise action, when there's more reason to fear than to hope.;Miguel de Cervantes;fear
22276;I fear no man, no beast or evil, brother.;Hulk Hogan;fear
22277;Courage is a special kind of knowledge: the knowledge of how to fear what ought to be feared and how not to fear what ought not to be feared.;David Ben-Gurion;fear
22278;A merchant who approaches business with the idea of serving the public well has nothing to fear from the competition.;James Cash Penney;fear
22279;You can ask me pretty much anything. There'll be things I'll go, 'That feels a little too personal.' But most things I don't have a fear of being asked about.;Nicole Kidman;fear
22280;You cannot avoid war in life, you cannot avoid the fear of terrorism, you cannot avoid those things now, they are a part of everyday demeanor.;John Mayer;fear
22281;Fame does lead to money, which I don't have a close relationship with. I'm the kind of guy who never sees the money - it all goes somewhere else. I don't understand it, I don't like to deal with it. I have a fear of not having it, because I grew up without it.;David Duchovny;fear
22282;I had a fear that I'd be typecast, but I don't really have that fear anymore.;David Duchovny;fear
22283;Whenever somebody says they need an angle for their story I always fear that they've got an idea and they want me to fit into it or they want me to come up with an idea myself or I'm supposed to be more revealing than I've been, and to me it just sounds like something I don't want to do.;David Duchovny;fear
22284;Fear is a very explosive emotion, but it has a short life span. It's the sprint. The marathon is hope.;Mike Huckabee;fear
22285;The record company's worst fear is that you'll fall in love or get rich.;Maynard James Keenan;fear
22286;I'm very much afraid of being mad - that's my one fear.;Sting;fear
22287;He who does not fear death cares naught for threats.;Pierre Corneille;fear
22288;Fundamentalists are panicked by the apparent disintegration of the family, the disappearance of certainty and the decay of morality. Fear leads them to ask, if we cannot trust the Bible, what can we trust?;Garrett Hardin;fear
22289;I woke up full of hate and fear the day before the most recent peace march in San Francisco. This was disappointing: I'd hoped to wake up feeling somewhere between Virginia Woolf and Wavy Gravy.;Anne Lamott;fear
22290;My coming to faith did not start with a leap but rather a series of staggers from what seemed like one safe place to another. Like lily pads, round and green, these places summoned and then held me up while I grew. Each prepared me for the next leaf on which I would land, and in this way I moved across the swamp of doubt and fear.;Anne Lamott;fear
22291;I have a big fear of change, or negative change, anyway. I'm basically the same person I was when I won 'Idol,' or when I was 10.;Kelly Clarkson;fear
22292;When Christians start thinking about Jesus, things start breaking down, they lose their faith. It's perfectly possible to go to church every Sunday and not ask any questions, just because you like it as a way of life. They fear that if they ask questions they'll lose their Christ, the very linchpin of their religion.;A. N. Wilson;fear
22293;I was taught that to create anything you had to believe in failure, simply because you had to be prepared to go through an idea without any fear. Failure, you learned, as I did in art school, to be a wonderful thing. It allowed you to get up in the morning and take the pillow off your head.;Malcolm Mclaren;fear
22294;We must travel in the direction of our fear.;John Berryman;fear
22295;I have a tendency to sabotage relationships I have a tendency to sabotage everything. Fear of success, fear of failure, fear of being afraid. Useless, good-for-nothing thoughts.;Michael Buble;fear
22296;Fear attracts attack.;Edwin Louis Cole;fear
22297;Fear of things invisible in the natural seed of that which everyone in himself calleth religion.;Thomas Hobbes;fear
22298;I try to get in quiet time and book time, but really, the only time I ever get that is when I'm on an airplane - I have a fear of flying, but I actually love flying because it's the only time I can sleep, and it's the only time I get to read.;Kesha;fear
22299;I define fear as standing across the ring from Joe Louis and knowing he wants to go home early.;Max Baer;fear
22300;Business is war. I go out there, I want to kill the competitors. I want to make their lives miserable. I want to steal their market share. I want them to fear me and I want everyone on my team thinking we're going to win.;Kevin O'Leary;fear
22301;Fear is not a good teacher. The lessons of fear are quickly forgotten.;Mary Catherine Bateson;fear
22302;I had to confront my fears and master my every demonic thought about inferiority, insecurity, or the fear of being black, young, and gifted in this Western culture.;Lauryn Hill;fear
22303;Let us go forth with fear and courage and rage to save the world.;Grace Paley;fear
22304;My main concern with the condition of mathematics in high school is that there's a lot of fear involved! Math is not, generally speaking, presented in a fun way. The concepts, as I see them, are fun, and that's the way I'd like to convey them myself.;Danica McKellar;fear
22305;You always fear when you're making a movie that has a moral to the story that people are going to reject the idea of being taught a lesson.;Christina Ricci;fear
22306;Curiosity will conquer fear even more than bravery will.;James Stephens;fear
22307;When I'm acting, I'm two beings. There's the one monitoring the distance between myself and the camera, making sure I hit my marks, and there is the one driven by this inner fire, this delicious fear.;Jeanne Moreau;fear
22308;Shock, confusion, fear, anger, grief, and defiance. On Sept. 11, 2001, and for the three days following the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil, President George W. Bush led with raw emotion that reflected the public's whipsawing stages of acceptance.;Ron Fournier;fear
22309;We, the people. Manifest Destiny. Conceived in liberty. Fear itself. Ask not. Morning in America. United we stand. Yes, we can. In times of great change and tumult, presidents seek to inspire beleaguered Americans by reminding them of their national identity.;Ron Fournier;fear
22310;Eighty percent of all choices are based on fear. Most people don't choose what they want they choose what they think is safe.;Phil McGraw;fear
22311;Fear of error which everything recalls to me at every moment of the flight of my ideas, this mania for control, makes men prefer reason's imagination to the imagination of the senses. And yet it is always the imagination alone which is at work.;Louis Aragon;fear
22312;We tell lies when we are afraid... afraid of what we don't know, afraid of what others will think, afraid of what will be found out about us. But every time we tell a lie, the thing that we fear grows stronger.;Tad Williams;fear
22313;Man's loneliness is but his fear of life.;Eugene O'Neill;fear
22314;I think I'm a bit less inhibited, and not thinking too much before speaking. It's not about being shameful, I'm just a bit more unabashedly myself because of this thing, and it probably started at age 15. I can be around people and say what I think without fear.;Kristen Stewart;fear
22315;I may be compelled to face danger, but never fear it, and while our soldiers can stand and fight, I can stand and feed and nurse them.;Clara Barton;fear
22316;When you advise any person you should be guided by the fear of God.;Abu Bakr;fear
22317;God helps those who fear Him.;Abu Bakr;fear
22318;Grief has limits, whereas apprehension has none. For we grieve only for what we know has happened, but we fear all that possibly may happen.;Pliny the Elder;fear
22319;It's better to get mugged than to live a life of fear.;Freeman Dyson;fear
22320;Dictators and oppressors should continue to fear me because I will be here for a long time.;Lech Walesa;fear
22321;When the entertainers of the Right aren't declaring their disgust with President Obama for groveling before foreign potentates, they're pretending to fear him as a left-wing thug, an exemplar of what they call 'the Chicago way."
Jerusalem is a time bomb that I fear is just waiting to go off.
Resist your fear fear will never lead to you a positive end. Go for your faith and what you believe.
When we can lay down our fear and anger and choose responses other than aggression, we create the conditions for bringing out the best in us humans.
People don't know where to place me. Terry Gilliam used me as a quirky cop in 'Twelve Monkeys', and then he hired me again to be an effeminate hotel clerk in 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'. Another time, I was shooting this indie film 'The Souler Opposite' and six days a week, I'm playing this big puppy dog, then I come to the 'NYPD Blue' set and become this scumbag.
In this life struggle, here I am among you fully cognizant that a true believer has no fear of what God has ordained for him. Those who are visited by fear live only for their present, under the illusion that the world began with them and will end with their departure.
Uncertainty and fear and ignorance about immigrants, about people who are different, has a history as old as our Nation.
But I love being scared. I think you're brave only when you do things that scare you. I've always used fear as a motivator. I'm not sure why.
If people would know how little brain is ruling the world, they would die of fear.
Resistance is feasible even for those who are not heroes by nature, and it is an obligation, I believe, for those who fear the consequences and detest the reality of the attempt to impose American hegemony.
At the time, 1980, people regarded actresses involved with production with a certain amount of fear, resentment and anger.
My dad always tell me to make decisions from love and not from fear.
Men do weird things when they experience fear. It's like a fight-or-flight thing.
An appeal to fear never finds an echo in German hearts.
Fear is something to be moved through, not something to be turned from.
I write entirely to find out what I'm thinking, what I'm looking at, what I see and what it means. What I want and what I fear.
My dear brother Barack Obama has a certain fear of free black men. As a young brother who grows up in a white context, brilliant African father, he's always had to fear being a white man with black skin. All he has known culturally is white. He has a certain rootlessness, a deracination.
Americans are terrified because so many of them have been laid off in recent years and months and they fear that they may be next. Even if they have not been laid off or have not known anyone laid off, they definitely know someone who has lost his home.
You can't be a proper comic unless you've been out on stage and felt the fear.
A huge part of what animates homophobia among young people is paranoia and fear of their own capacity to be gay themselves.
Without fullness of experience, length of days is nothing. When fullness of life has been achieved, shortness of days is nothing. That is perhaps why the young have usually so little fear of death they live by intensities that the elderly have forgotten.
In the ring, I never really knew fear.
Can someone within that society walk into the town square and say what they want without fear of being punished for his or her views? If so, then that society is a free society. If not, it is a fear society.
There's always a period of curious fear between the first sweet-smelling breeze and the time when the rain comes cracking down.
I do support artists standing by their beliefs and walking with integrity. We have to find a better way to commercially exploit music while giving artists their proper respect. This cannot be done while taking their contributions for granted or trying to control the scope of their growth and power through threats and fear tactics.
Television knows no night. It is perpetual day. TV embodies our fear of the dark, of night, of the other side of things.
We are biological creatures. We are born, we live, we die. There is no transcendent purpose to existence. At best we are creatures of reason, and by using reason we can cure ourselves of emotional excess. Purged of both hope and fear, we find courage in the face of helplessness, insignificance and uncertainty.
My greatest fear is feeling like a professional novelist. Somebody who creates characters, who sits down and has pieces of paper taped to the wall - what's going to happen in this scene, or this act. What I like is for it to be a much more scary, sloppy reflection of who I am.
Anger elicits anger, fear elicits fear, no matter how well meaning we may be.
Disease is an experience of a so-called mortal mind. It is fear made manifest on the body.
Fear is a question. What are you afraid of and why? Our fears are a treasure house of self-knowledge if we explore them.
Stand before the people you fear and speak your mind - even if your voice shakes.
A child's fear is a world whose dark corners are quite unknown to grownup people it has its sky and its abysses, a sky without stars, abysses into which no light can ever penetrate.
Fear rules almost every newsroom in the country.
Only a fool does not fear actors, but you can't beat them, and if you can't beat them, join them, as they say. As I've got older I've become very interested in that part of the work.
Failure seldom stops you. What stops you is the fear of failure.
My greatest fear is that the audience will beat me to the punch line.
Roosevelt's declaration that Americans had 'nothing to fear but fear itself' was a glorious piece of inspirational rhetoric and just as gloriously wrong.
Gun crime is a major cause of fear and distress throughout the UK. The problem is deeply entrenched in a wide range of social and cultural factors and therefore not an isolated issue.
I was a postman one Christmas and I developed a morbid fear of dogs.
I never discuss a novel while I'm writing it, for fear that talking about it will diminish my desire to write it.
Authoritarian political ideologies have a vested interest in promoting fear, a sense of the imminence of takeover by aliens and real diseases are useful material.
The only thing I fear more than change is no change. The business of being static makes me nuts.
I think people that have fear that, 'Oh if I have a kid I won't be able to do this and I won't be able to do that.' It's kind of the opposite. It really gives you energy. It makes people better.
Should we fear hackers? Intention is at the heart of this discussion.
Vertigo is the conflict between the fear of falling and the desire to fall.
To seek understanding before taking action, yet to trust my instincts when action is called for. Never to avoid danger from fear, never to seek out danger for its own sake. Never to conform to fashion from fear of eccentricity, never to be eccentric from fear of conformity.
Laughter kills fear, and without fear there can be no faith. For without fear of the devil there is no need for God.
President Obama is doing the right thing by offering young immigrants, most often in this country through no action of their own, a chance to live and work openly, free from the fear of deportation.
You get so afraid of failure and so afraid of losing and so afraid of not being the best that it's not a natural drive - it's born out of fear of failure. Which helps in Hollywood.
Yet, it ought to be obvious that good music generally occupies a higher plane that mere politics. Great writers can express moods through melody and capture experiences we share most powerfully - love, lust, longing joy, rage, fear triumph, yearning and confusion.
I definitely think cheerleaders have no fear.
Although I am deeply grateful to a great many people, I forgo the temptation of naming them for fear that I might slight any by omission.
I don't believe in fear - I live my life without regrets.
I have no fear of being less beautiful, I've always been afraid of not being beautiful.
I sometimes have a horrible fear of turning up a canvas of mine. I'm always afraid of finding a monster in place of the precious jewels I thought I had put there!
Fear, anxiety and neurosis: that's just in the suitcase when you're an actor.
Authority has every reason to fear the skeptic, for authority can rarely survive in the face of doubt.
Not a few other very eminent and scholarly men made the same request, urging that I should no longer through fear refuse to give out my work for the common benefit of students of Mathematics.
So here we are today with a new conversation. When University of Georgia plays Georgia Tech, it's uniform color versus skin color. We have - we've overcome that level of racial fear.
I took a Fear of Flying class, and I always missed the class, because I was always flying.
I think it is important to ask ourselves as citizens, not as Democrats attacking the administration, but as citizens, whether a world power can really provide global leadership on the basis of fear and anxiety?
Together we can make a world where cancer no longer means living with fear, without hope, or worse.
In morals what begins in fear usually ends in wickedness in religion what begins in fear usually ends in fanaticism. Fear, either as a principle or a motive, is the beginning of all evil.
So fear helps me from making mistakes, but I make lot of mistakes.
Fear of failure has always been my best motivator.
My fear now is of cliche, of complacency, of not being able to feel authenticity in myself and those around me.
I had a constant fear, a constant little doubt in my mind: 'OK, I'm getting ready to do my standing back full on beam and I might re-tear my ACL.'
Mine are the deep-seated fears established when we are children, and they never quite go away: the fear of being helpless, the fear of being trapped, the fear of being out of control.
Being a parent is not for the faint of heart. I may joke about knowing fear, but the fact is, the first time I ever knew real fear was the day Charlotte, my first child, was born. Suddenly there is someone in the world you care about more than anything.
I always say three things make a writer: inspiration, obviously perspiration, doing the work. But the third is desperation. I'm not really fit for anything else, or to have a real job. That fear drives me. The pressure has always been self inflicted.
I like to do something I fear.
At first I wasn't sure that I had the talent, but I did know I had a fear of failure, and that fear compelled me to fight off anything that might abet it.
Jews survived all the defeats, expulsions, persecutions and pogroms, the centuries in which they were regarded as a pariah people, even the Holocaust itself, because they never gave up the faith that one day they would be free to live as Jews without fear.
In an ecology of love, people can relate in trust and face the future without fear. They do not need to play it safe. They can take uncertainty in their stride.
It may be you fear more to deliver judgment upon me than I fear judgment.
God, make me so uncomfortable that I will do the very thing I fear.
Fear was absolutely necessary. Without it, I would have been scared to death.
A lot of people fear death because they think that so overwhelming an experience has to be painful, but I've seen quite a few deaths, and, with one exception, I've never known anyone to undergo anything like agony. That's amazing when you think about it. I mean, how complicated the mechanism is that's being taken apart.
A man's primary fantasy is access to a variety of attractive women without the fear of rejection.
I am consumed with the fear of failing. Reaching deep down and finding confidence has made all my dreams come true.
The greatest fear that haunts this city is a suitcase bomb, nuclear or germ. Many people carry small gas masks. The masses here seem to be resigned to the inevitable, believing an attack of major proportions will happen.
The Feminist Me says that a woman's right to her own body should be inviolate at all times, free from fear of peeping paps.
Well, I am now convinced there is no kind of fear or anxiety anyone has to live with.
Roosevelt talked not only about Freedom from Fear, but also Freedom from Want.
I fear God never showed mercy to one so vile as I.
Most of us harbour a significant amount of subconscious fear about death, and act out of this fear in our daily lives.
Fear is just not a part of my life - so much so that if it's involved in somebody else's life and they're close to me, I won't be around them.
The dread of lonliness is greater than the fear of bondage, so we get married.
There are many who dare not kill themselves for fear of what the neighbours will say.
As repressed sadists are supposed to become policemen or butchers so those with an irrational fear of life become publishers.
There's a confidence that comes from youth and not knowing better. But there comes a point, as an actor, when you do know better, and that is when the fear starts.
My father was against the death penalty, and that was hard in the Son of Sam summer when fear was driving the desire for the death penalty.
Because of the lack of education on AIDS, discrimination, fear, panic, and lies surrounded me.
The universal human laws - need, love for the beloved, fear, hunger, periodic exaltation, the kindness that rises up naturally in the absence of hunger/fear/pain - are constant, predictable, reliable, universal, and are merely ornamented with the details of local culture.
Let them hate so long as they fear.
The regrets of yesterday and the fear of tomorrow can kill you.
Fear of the future is worse than one's present fortune.
Most fear stems from sin to limit one's sins, one must assuredly limit one's fear, thereby bringing more peace to one's spirit.
Over the past few years, the road to confrontation has shown its consequences: loss of innocent lives, destruction and fear. Most costly, however, was the loss of hope. The most precious gift that you can present to your peoples over the coming weeks is renewed hope born out of tangible progress on the ground.
I'd rather be two strokes ahead going into the last day than two strokes behind. Having said that, it's probably easier to win coming from behind. There is no fear in chasing. There is fear in being chased.
Try a thing you haven't done three times. Once, to get over the fear of doing it. Twice, to learn how to do it. And a third time to figure out whether you like it or not.
Coming to terms with the fear of death is conducive to healing, positive personality transformation, and consciousness evolution.
I think one thing that kids who grow up on farms really have going for them is they have exposure to death and birth in a totally different way. I think it takes away a little bit of the mystery and a little bit of the fear, and I do wish I had that. And I wish I was able to grow my own food.
You know I never used to be a bad flyer, but I did start to have a fear of flying after I shot a movie where I was terrorized on a plane. I made Wes Craven's 'Red Eye'. I don't think they're linked but it does make me pause and wonder if they are, so perhaps I will explore that in therapy some day.
Vaccines save lives fear endangers them. It's a simple message parents need to keep hearing.
At the root of the shy temperament is a deep fear of social judgment, one so severe it can sometimes be crippling. Introverted people don't worry unduly about whether they'll be found wanting, they just find too much socializing exhausting and would prefer either to be alone or in the company of a select few people.
What people fear most about tragedy is its randomness - a taxi cab jumps the curb and hits a pedestrian, a gun misfires and kills a bystander. Better to have some rational cause and effect between incident and injury. And if cause and effect aren't possible, better that there at least be some reward for all the suffering.
Less base the fear of death than fear of life.
I call on the Iranian people: it is not too late to replace the corrupt regime and return to your glorious Persian heritage, a heritage of culture and values and not of bombs and missiles... How can a nation allow a regime to instill fear, take away the people's freedom and shock the young generation that seeks its way out of the dictatorial Iran.
I wish there were more true conversion, and then there would not be so much backsliding, and, for fear of suffering, living at ease, when there are so few to contend for Christ and His cause.
Fear not and the God of mercies grant a full gale and a fair entry into His kingdom, which may carry sweetly and swiftly over the bar, that you find not the rub of death.
I wish to be a martyr, and I don't fear death.
I don't have a fear of flying I have a fear of crashing.
Fear of death has never played a large part in my consciousness - perhaps unimaginative of me.
I might be deceiving myself but I do not think that I do have an inordinate fear of death.
On the one hand Twitter gives you the opportunity to engage with people, which is great, but on the other there are people who feel they can say whatever they want, put poison out there, really, without fear of any repercussions.
Americans need never fear their government because of the advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over the people of almost every other nation.
Today it is not big business that we have to fear. It is big government.
Fear controls you.
If you have stage fright, it never goes away. But then I wonder: is the key to that magical performance because of the fear?
For me it's important to be in balance. To not let fear get in the way of things, to not worry so much about protecting yourself all the time.
Fear is always a good motivator.
What our children have to fear is not the cars on the highways of tomorrow but our own pleasure in calculating the most elegant parameters of their deaths.
We are near, very near, to an end to the eurozone crisis... The worst - in the sense of the fear of the eurozone breaking up - is over. But the best isn't there yet.
You always have this fear in a movie of just being somebody's woman.
Perhaps we don't need these religious concoctions to pillow the fear of death. Just the fact that there is an unknown, and something greater, can bring a feeling of peace. That's enough for me.
That might have a lot to do with it, but you know, I probably don't show fear, but I suffer from fear like everyone else.
Honest to God, all my life I have had such a fear of spiders. In fact, I use to have a reoccurring dream about one. Very clearly, it was black with a red head. It would sit up in the corner of the bedroom and when it started getting closer, I would wake up in a panic.
You have to have fear to take risks - and I want to at least try.
You live in this shadow that you're going to burn in Hell until you're saved. And I still worry about it a little. I don't believe in Heaven, but I do still fear Hell.
As with most phobias, the fear of flying does make some sense, but if ever there was a fear worth quashing then this is it. After all, life is short, and there's a great big world to explore out there.
You can't operate a company by fear, because the way to eliminate fear is to avoid criticism. And the way to avoid criticism is to do nothing.
I always have the fear that, if I don't commit 100 percent to my work, then it's gonna suffer.
Going to parties usually makes me feel depressed, just because I have such social fear after meeting people.
I'm completely in love with the world but also terrified of it. It creates some overwhelming feelings. Wanting to battle out that joy and fear is part of my music.
I'd gone from being this art student messing about with music to this girl with a record deal, magazine front covers and all this hype. In many ways, it was everything I ever wanted, but when it happened all I felt was total, paralysing fear.
Why do people do things that they fear? It may be that the fear contains information. Something can be interesting if you get to the other side of that fear.
Fear and pain and suffering is not OK for any being to feel intentionally at the hands of us.
My fear is that, as soon as I get married and have kids that I'll kind of do what a lot of people do and suddenly start making, 'Now I'm gonna make films for kids.' I really hope I don't do that.
Freedom is contagious. That's why despots fear it so much.
I began to fear that Mos Def was being treated as a product, not a person, so I've been going by Yasiin since '99. At first it was just for friends and family, but now I'm declaring it openly.
I find writing very difficult. It's hard and it hurts sometimes, and it's scary because of the fear of failure and the very unpleasant feeling that you may have reached the limit of your abilities.
Respect and fear are two different things.
The thing about Republicans is that they don't care so much about respect, but they love fear, at least in others.
A writer of fiction lives in fear. Each new day demands new ideas and he can never be sure whether he is going to come up with them or not.
I think we have lost our groove as a country. One of the reasons was the attack on 9/11. We got knocked off our game. From a country that always exported hope we went into the business of exporting fear.
The injury that we do to a man must be such that we need not fear his vengeance.
There is no nation so powerful, as the one that obeys its laws not from principals of fear or reason, but from passion.
I have now taken a serious task upon myself and I fear a greater one that is in the power of any man to perform in the given time-but it is too late to go back.
Whenever there is fear, you will get wrong figures.
All the times I've been lucky enough to be a part of a show that's actually gotten on the air, it's always that same mixture of excitement and utter fear.
We have not sought this conflict we have sought too long to avoid it our forbearance has been construed into weakness, our magnanimity into fear, until the vindication of our manhood, as well as the defence of our rights, is required at our hands.
There are no guarantees. From the viewpoint of fear, none are strong enough. From the viewpoint of love, none are necessary.
Fear not that thy life shall come to an end, but rather that it shall never have a beginning.
He doesn't know the meaning of the word fear, but then again he doesn't know the meaning of most words.
People have a fear of the unknown. Insects have different senses than us, different amount of limbs and their body structure is very different. It's hard for us to really relate to them and understand them.
I fear that our true motivation is about oil and our own flailing economy about the failure to destroy Al Qaeda and about revenge.
Defeat the fear of death and welcome the death of fear.
With their souls of patent leather, they come down the road. Hunched and nocturnal, where they breathe they impose, silence of dark rubber, and fear of fine sand.
There are only three sins - causing pain, causing fear, and causing anguish. The rest is window dressing.
Americans have discovered fear.
I thought Erica Jong's Fear of Flying was one of the biggest pieces of crap that I've ever read in my life.
In the '80s, I was putting out an album virtually every year, I think mostly based on fear - that if I didn't, people would soon forget about me.
Somehow we can't live outside the politics of race. There's something very deep in all of us, that is taught to us when we are very, very little. Which is the disrespect and fear of the other.
Being brave isn't the absence of fear. Being brave is having that fear but finding a way through it.
You're not human if you don't feel fear. But I've learnt to treat fear as an emotion that sharpens me. It's there to give me that edge for what I have to do.
I live my life through fear. If I'm afraid of it I'll do it just so I'm not afraid of it anymore.
I talk to women's groups all over the country and see women struggling with this. The fear of not being accepted, of being different, of not having a man, all make it hard for a woman to do what she really believes is right for her.
I am very interested in what has been called bad taste. I believe the fear of displaying a soi-disant bad taste stops us from venturing into special cultural zones.
So then learn to conquer your fear. This is the only art we have to master nowadays: to look at things without fear, and to fearlessly do right.
Who sows fear, reaps weapons.
Discipline strengthens the mind so that it becomes impervious to the corroding influence of fear.
It is because I believe that it is in the power of such nations to lead the world back into the paths of peace that I propose to devote myself to explaining what, in my opinion, can and should be done to banish the fear of war that hangs so heavily over the world.
Terrorism is a psychological warfare. Terrorists try to manipulate us and change our behavior by creating fear, uncertainty, and division in society.
I didn't want to be on the losing side. I was fed up with Jewish weakness, timidity and fear. I didn't want any more Jewish sentimentality and Jewish suffering. I was sickened by our sad songs.
Peace, if it ever exists, will not be based on the fear of war but on the love of peace.
Necessity of action takes away the fear of the act, and makes bold resolution the favorite of fortune.
Democracy is stronger than terrorism, and we will not cower to the terrorists' campaign of fear.
I live in a kind of controlled awareness. I wouldn't call it fear, but it's an awareness. I know I have a responsibility to behave in a certain way. I'm able to do that.
I fear that the rising personal bankruptcies and repossessions are the first signs of bigger problems to come and personal debt - Gordon Brown's legacy to millions of Britain's families - will hang like a millstone around the neck of the British people for years to come.
Fear is a huge thing for older people.
The elimination of the fear of death transforms the individual's way of being in the world.
Dying before dying has two important consequences: It liberates the individual from the fear of death and influences the actual experience of dying at the time of biological demise.
One of the darkest, deepest shames so many of us mothers feel nowadays is our fear that we are Bad Mothers, that we are failing our children and falling far short of our own ideals.
By presenting a faithful and honest record of my experience as a mother, I hope to show both my readers and my children how truth can redeem even what you fear might be the gravest of sins.
The thing about youthful offenders is that no one seems to care about them. Most people don't like adolescents - even the good ones can be snarky and unpleasant. Combine the antipathy we feel toward the average teenager with the fear inspired by youth violence, and you have a population that no one wants to deal with.
Another parent's different approach raises the possibility that you've made a mistake with your child. We simply can't tolerate that because we fear that any mistake, no matter how minor, could have devastating consequences. So we proclaim the superiority of our own choices. We've lost sight of the fact that people have preferences.
Fear and greed are potent motivators. When both of these forces push in the same direction, virtually no human being can resist.
We all struggle with our failure to communicate and our failure to reach beyond fear to love people.
You live with the fear people might find out. Then you actually have the courage to tell people and they go, I don't think you are gay. It's enough to drive you crazy.
More than fantasy or even science fiction, Ray Bradbury wrote horror, and like so many great horror writers he was himself utterly without fear, of anything. He wasn't afraid of looking uncool - he wasn't scared to openly love innocence, or to be optimistic, or to write sentimentally when he felt that way.
There is the fear, common to all English-only speakers, that the chief purpose of foreign languages is to make fun of us. Otherwise, you know, why not just come out and say it?
President Obama's 100-day plan is pretty impressive. I think it's a Wow 100-plus days. The administration is not operating from fear, it is trying to drive change for the future, and that's a good thing.
I have a pathological fear of being on my own. When I'm with my own thoughts, I start to unravel myself, and I start to think really dark thoughts, self-destructive thoughts.
I don't have a fear factor. Well, not much of one. And I'm willing to risk quite a lot - as a comedian, you're always risking a lot. You're risking failure, especially if you're improvising and going on TV shows trying to make comedy out of thin air. That is quite a risky business.
It's the opinion of some that crops could be grown on the moon which raises the fear that it may not be long before we're paying somebody not to.
Fear can make all of us do the wrong things sometimes.
I fear only God, all praises to Him.
You know, Stephen says, in the movies no one ever goes to the bathroom. They shave, they brush their teeth. He goes right at this sort of funny taboo we have about the bathroom, and he turned it into this nightmare, you know, your worst fear of what's in there.
My biggest fear ever is to be involved in a plane crash, so when that happened... well, I'm just thankful to be alive. I'm just grateful to be here at all.
Libertarians know that a free country has nothing to fear from anyone coming in or going out - while a welfare state is scared to death of poor people coming in and rich people getting out.
Hey, we all have our fear. Mine is bugs and lobsters!
There are people who never experience that, who remain closed until death, from fear of change.
The biggest fear I have is to die with regrets, and of course that will come true.
If you don't go towards the thing you fear, you won't be able to say you lived.
I wish I had less fear about creating my own parts.
I'd make a terrible surgeon. The fear of blood? Very high on my list.
I could write an entertaining novel about rejection slips, but I fear it would be overly long.
Not one has shown an iota of fear of death. They want to end this agony.
We Hoosiers hold to some quaint notions. Some might say we 'cling' to them, though not out of fear or ignorance. We believe in paying our bills. We have kept our state in the black throughout the recent unpleasantness, while cutting rather than raising taxes, by practicing an old tribal ritual - we spend less money than we take in.
The vehemence with which certain critics have chosen not simply to criticize what I've written, but to challenge my writing this story at all, speaks of what the book is about: fear of disapproval.
I say let's go back to a truer use of the word 'freedom.' Let's start with President Franklin Roosevelt's Four Freedoms: freedom of speech and expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want and freedom from fear. I would add the freedom to bargain collectively. Those freedoms are under attack today.
When we are unwilling to draw clear moral lines between free societies and fear societies, when we are unwilling to call the former good and the latter evil, we will not be able to advance the cause of peace because peace cannot be disconnected from freedom.
You know that day after day of, Oh God what am I going to do with myself feeling? The fear of the emptiness that it implies keeps me going.
I find fear is a great motivator to work hard.
They did interviews with my wife and daughter-they were genuinely in fear of me having a heart attack, working 20 hours a day, eating fast food.
There was a real fear that a euro-zone bank might fail, that we'd have a sovereign debt problem in one of the larger European economies. That's dissipated, thanks largely to the action of the European Central Bank.
We poison our lives with fear of burglary and shipwreck, and, ask anyone, the house is never burgled, and the ship never goes down.
When men don't fear God, they give themselves to evil.
I cannot give a single concert at which I do not play one piece after the other in an agony of terror because my memory threatens to fail me. This fear torments me for days beforehand.
Worry does not mean fear, but readiness for the confrontation.
Hope thou not much, and fear thou not at all.
We must have our say, not through violence, aggression or fear. We must speak out calmly and forcefully. We shall only be able to enter the new world era if we agree to engage in dialogue with the other side.
People with bad consciences always fear the judgment of children.
As one who participated in all the wars of the state of Israel, I saw the horror of wars. I saw the fear of wars. I saw my best friends being killed in battles. I was seriously injured twice.
The world has nothing to fear from military ambition in our Government.
I fear other actors who are not prepared. And I fear directors who are afraid.
I don't think that anyone seriously fears that the world can be blown to pieces all together. But what one can fear and rightly so are regional things, like in the Middle East, India, Pakistan, the Korean Peninsula, borders in Africa, etc.
Change creates fear, and technology creates change. Sadly, most people don't behave very well when they are afraid.
Part of what Special Olympics is trying to do is break down stereotypes that still exist for people. There is still a lot of fear.
The fear of the never-ending onslaught of gizmos and gadgets is nothing new. The radio, the telephone, Facebook - each of these inventions changed the world. Each of them scared the heck out of an older generation. And each of them was invented by people who were in their 20s.
I have a fear of poverty in old age. I have this vision of myself living in a skip and eating cat food. It's because I'm freelance, and I've never had a proper job. I don't have a pension, and my savings are dwindling. I always thought someone would just come along and look after me.
Let children read whatever they want and then talk about it with them. If parents and kids can talk together, we won't have as much censorship because we won't have as much fear.
The books that will never be read. And all due to the fear of censorship. As always, young readers will be the real losers.
There's so much fear involved in trying to do something you don't know how to do that drugs and alcohol can become a big part of your life if you have an addictive personality or are very unsure, which most songwriters are.
The things you fear are undefeatable, not by their nature, but by your approach.
I live in constant fear of being fired or dropped for that dark part of my work I can't control.
The fear for a network is the viewer gets tired of you. Not that you lost any credibility, but they get tired of you.
But with the right kind of coaching and determination you can accomplish anything and the biggest accomplishment that I feel I got from the film was overcoming that fear.
We've all had that fear, that despair of losing someone, or this fierce desire because it's not reciprocated. The less reciprocation there is, the more desire we have.
I won't touch on risky, because that's subjective. People are just afraid of things too much. Afraid of things that don't necessarily merit fear.
He who has conquered doubt and fear has conquered failure.
I don't want to wake up and be bored. That's probably my greatest fear is to have nothing to do. What better job is there than to play quarterback for an NFL team, and certainly one that I've been on for a long time and had success with? I don't plan on giving it up any time soon.
I'm not the type of person to live in fear. I think positively.
Sides are being divided now. It's very obvious. So if you're on the other side of the fence, you're suddenly anti-American. It's breeding fear of being on the wrong side.
There is a lot of hype and fear about this much-talked-about prospect of designer babies.
You don't want too much fear in a market, because people will be blinded to some very good buying opportunities. You don't want too much complacency because people will be blinded to some risk.
There is a kind of fear, approaching a panic, that's spreading through the Baby Boom Generation, which has suddenly discovered that it will have to provide for its own retirement.
Part of the reason that the government's fear mongering is succeeding is because so many people are so ignorant, that it is easier for government to frighten people in submission.
Action conquers fear.
Defeat the fear of death and you welcome the death of fear.
There is a fear of emotion in tennis.
Forty years ago this country went down a rabbit hole in Vietnam and millions died. I fear we're going down a rabbit hole once again - and if people can stop and think and reflect on some of the ideas and issues in this movie, perhaps I've done some damn good here!
In tennis, it is not the opponent you fear, it is the failure itself, knowing how near you were but just out of reach.
The independent girl is a person before whose wrath only the most rash dare stand, and, they, it must be confessed, with much fear and trembling.
Hunger and fear are the only realities in dog life: an empty stomach makes a fierce dog.
The only men who aren't in fear of women's reactions are usually men who aren't born or who are dead.
My only problem is the fear that opposition bowlers might go for my fingers and that's why I was scared of the short ball. Now I am struggling with the ball pitching up and swinging away. I just keep nicking that one.
A line from one of my 1997 columns - 'Do one thing every day that scares you' - is now widely attributed to Eleanor Roosevelt, though I have yet to see any evidence that she ever said it and I don't believe she did. She said some things about fear, but not that thing.
A lot of children, like I did, move away from words because of the fear - which is something you have to take out of education: the fear of worrying about what marks you'll get, detention, worrying about letting people down, your parents, teachers.
I am grateful that I didn't let fear get the best of me. It only holds you back from possibilities and greatness.
You've got to kick fear to the side, because the payoff is huge.
My greatest desire is that the hope that has overcome fear in my country will help vanquish it around the world.
In masks outrageous and austere, The years go by in single file But none has merited my fear, And none has quite escaped my smile.
Fear created the first gods in the world.
What's powerful about a love scene is not seeing the act. It's seeing the passion, the need, the desire, the caring, the fear.
But to be the best, you must face the best. And to overcome your fear, you must deal with the best.
The way you deal with a scare is the way you deal with a laugh. The timing has to be perfect. When you're dealing with fear or laughter - emotions that happen spontaneously - you hope it's working. But in the moment, you really have no idea.
It is said that those whom the gods wish to destroy they first make mad. It may well be that a war neurosis stirred up by propaganda of fear and hatred is the prelude to destruction.
To drive an F1 car you have to be a little mad. On the morning of a race there's a mix of excitement and fear. If it's a wet track, then it's worse as you're not in control most of the time, which is the thing all drivers fear the most.
My biggest fear in life is to be average.
When you say 'fear of the unknown', that is the definition of fear fear is the unknown, fear is what you do not know, and it's genetically within us so that we feel safe. We feel scared of the woods because we're not familiar with it, and that keeps you safe.
Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure in life.
There's always an element of fear that you need to work a lot until people get sick and tired of you or finally figure out that you're a fraud after all!
I'd like to jump out of a plane. I have a fear of heights I'd like to face.
Studios, because they are investing a great deal of money in movies, they want a guarantee that when they hire somebody that person can deliver for them. Everything is fear based, so they pigeonhole people. But I've written everything, from Westerns to sci-fi to dramedy, I've done it all.
By action and reaction do we become strong or weak, according to the character of our thoughts and mental states. Fear is the deadly nightshade of the mind.
Americans have an abiding belief in their ability to control reality by purely material means... airline insurance replaces the fear of death with the comforting prospect of cash.
I think that my vampires in general were influenced by my being allowed to watch the Hammer vampire films. Vampire Circus, also shown as Circus of Fear, was one of those movies.
I decided to make 'Captain America' because I realized I wasn't doing the film because it terrified me. You can't make decisions based on fear.
With all of the divisiveness that is going on in the country we live in, so much of it is based around just fear of the other. And anyone who does not look like me, walk like me, talk like me, have sex like me, they're the other and I'm afraid of them. And hopefully we will learn that it's just not scary. There's nothing to be afraid of.
China, in the future, is going to have even more nuclear capability than it has had in the past. I don't believe that they have anything to fear from the United States, and I frankly don't believe they do fear the United States.
It is the privilege of those who fear love to murder those who do not fear it!
Writers rush in where publishers fear to tread and where translators fear to tread.
I play with a fear of letting people down. That's what motivates me.
There's a connection between the advances that are made in technology and the sense of primitive fear people develop in response to it.
Every move we make in fear of the next war in fact hastens it.
The Klan had used fear, intimidation and murder to brutally oppress over African-Americans who sought justice and equality and it sought to respond to the young workers of the civil rights movement in Mississippi in the same way.
Fear may very well be a caveman fear of the predator, of the giant lizard chasing them - maybe that's what Steven Spielberg connects with so well in Lost World.
War is fear cloaked in courage.
We will be safer from terrorist attack only when we have earned the respect of all other nations instead of their fear, respect for our values and not merely our weapons.
I've been quite fascinated by the relative insignificance of human existence, the shortness of life. We might as well be a letter in a word in a sentence on a page in a book in a library in a city in one country in this enormous universe! And that kind of fear and insignificance has kept me awake at night.
Are you gonna fuel your faith or fuel your fear? I'm all about fueling my faith, especially when it's hard to do so.
I like normal stuff people fear - like spiders and heights. I'm frightened by the unknown, by things that are hard to figure out and get a grip on.
If you believe in yourself, if you are without fear, you will also be tolerant, non-aggressive and find love.
It sometimes is just the fear of being misunderstood.
Fear nothing but what thy industry may prevent be confident of nothing but what fortune cannot defeat it is no less folly to fear what is impossible to be avoided than to be secure when there is a possibility to be deprived.
Nothing drew me to the film business. I was propelled by the fear and anxiety of Vietnam. I had been drafted into the Marines. My brother was already serving in Vietnam. I bought, if you will, a stay of execution - both literally and figuratively - and went on to graduate school of business from the law school that I was attending.
Being aware of your fear is smart. Overcoming it is the mark of a successful person.
In terms of fear, I still am most afraid of Freddie Kruger.
I'm not scared of anything in particular, but I am motivated by a fear of failure as opposed to a need to succeed.
Many a time freedom has been rolled back - and always for the same sorry reason: fear.
I was horrified when Richard Chamberlain and Rupert Everett said gay actors should stay in the closet. They were saying to people that they should live a lie and not be liberated, to live in fear of being found out.
For our part, we shall continue to work for the new dawn when all the Children of Abraham and their descendants are living together in the birthplace of their three great monotheistic religions, a life free from fear, a life free from want - a life in peace.
My only fear is the unknown.
Yoga is a way to freedom. By its constant practice, we can free ourselves from fear, anguish and loneliness.
I think there's a lot projected on beautiful women, period. At least, maybe this is just my fear, but I do sometimes feel dismissed before I've even been allowed to participate. I have moments of feeling really wounded. But I am pretty optimistic, and I do enjoy a lot of my life.
Let no man fear to die, we love to sleep all, and death is but the sounder sleep.
Here's what the right-wing has in, there's no shortage of the natural resources of ignorance, apathy, hate, fear. As long as those things are in the collective conscious and unconscious, the Republicans will have some votes.
People are so used to having their lives filmed, they're not even conscious of having cameras around. I still have that sort of suspicion when a camera comes out. I view it as a thing to fear.
I'm afraid of being average. I have a real fear of being just another linebacker.
Of the primary emotions, fear is the one that bears most directly on survival. Children show fear. Adults try not to, maybe because it's shameful, or, in some circumstances, dangerous. The fear response is automatic, though, and your body runs through its reflexes whether you want it to or not.
People don't want to talk about death, just like they don't want to talk about computer security. Maybe I should have named my workstation Fear. People are so motivated by fear.
For any new technology there is always controversy and there always some fear associated with it. I think that's just the price of being first sometimes.
If the markets had behaved badly, that would obviously add to people's sense of alarm... but there has been a lot of reassurance coming, particularly in the way the Brits handled all this. There seems to be no great fear that something like that is going to happen here.
Each sudden gust of light explains itself as flames, but neither they, nor even bombs redoubled on the hills tonight can quite include me in their fear.
I was kind of surprised to learn how controlling I am. I never thought of myself in that way. I think the root of the control issues is usually fear, because you want to know what's going to be happening at any given moment.
I have no fear that the candle lighted in Palestine years ago will ever be put out.
The one thing I've learned is that stuttering in public is never as bad as I fear it will be.
We manage the fear, I manage the fear, but it certainly takes its toll, the strain does.
When we were scared about 9/11, we federalized the airport security, we spent millions for body armor for dogs in Ohio. All that over-reaction comes from fear and government - bad combination.
The filmmaking process is a very personal one to me, I mean it really is a personal kind of communication. It's not as though its a study of fear or any of that stuff.
I think everyone shares a fear of failure - that you're only as good as your most recent collection. That's definitely a fear, but it's a fear that fuels me, that makes me want to work harder, that makes me take on more challenges.
Most people come to fear not death itself, but the many terrible ways of dying.
My greatest fear is disappointing the reader, so each book has to be better than the one before.
We fear doing too little when we should do more. Then atone by doing too much, when perhaps we should do less.
I fear dying in the middle of a book. It would be so annoying to write 80,000 words and not get to the end. I'm phobic about it. So when I'm writing a book I leave messages all over the house for people to know how the story ends, and then someone can finish it for me.
I had a fear of becoming anything, a fear of becoming a specialist. I might have become a doctor, but if you become a doctor, that's your specialty in life and you are defined by it. One of the attractions of being a writer is that you're never a specialist. Your field is entirely open your field is the entire human condition.
Loneliness is, I think, people's biggest fear, whether they are conscious of it or not.
When I was younger I used to pick things just to face the fear.
I'll think, If this is his first punch, how are the others gonna feel? That's the only fear I have for myself.
When, as we must often do, we fear science, we really fear ourselves.
I have no fear of photography as long as it cannot be used in heaven and in hell.
I didn't fear failure. I expected failure.
I know a lot of people fear the rougher types who might be at a state school, but surely it is better to know who they are and how to deal with them than for that kind of child to appear as a completely different species to yours.
I'd love to be a dad. I hope I'd be great at it. That's every man's fear, yet his most important job.
Fools rush in where incumbents fear to tread.
The day in 2004 when the radiologist told me I had invasive cancer, I walked down the hospital corridor looking for a phone to call my husband, and I could almost see the fear coming toward me like a big, black shadow.
Celebrity or no celebrity, I think a lot of females deal with the fear of being abducted.
See, the 'On the Road' that came out in 1957 was censored. A lot of the honesty of it, the bitter honesty, is in the original scroll version that came out in 2007 on the 50-year anniversary. Back then, there was so much post-Second World War fear that was imposed on everybody - 'You must live life this way' - and these guys were bored.
With Alexander's cancer, I was definitely brought to my knees for the first time because of the fear factor.
How are fears born? They are born because of differences in tradition and history they are born because of differences in emotional, political and national circumstances. Because of such differences, people fear they cannot live together.
Some days it is a heroic act just to refuse the paralysis of fear and straighten up and step into another day.
Don't fear the terrorists. They're mothers and fathers.
Do what you fear most and you control fear.
I don't think that fundamentalism has anything to do with Jesus Christ. They call themselves Christians, but if that's Christian, count me out. Fundamentalism is built on fear and greed. They're telling you to give them your money otherwise you're going to hell.
The roots of homophobia are fear. Fear and more fear.
I remember looking at the sky and thinking that the universe is so big and it's all chaos. I call it 'the dark fear.' At any moment, the dark fear could come in.
There is no city or country in the world where women and girls live free of the fear of violence. No leader can claim: 'this is not happening in my backyard.'
Most fears are basic: fear of the dark, fear of going down in the basement, fear of weird sounds, fear that somebody is waiting for you in your closet. Those kinds of things stay with you no matter what age.
A big part of financial freedom is having your heart and mind free from worry about the what-ifs of life.
Whenever men take the law into their own hands, the loser is the law. And when the law loses, freedom languishes.
To say that any people are not fit for freedom, is to make poverty their choice, and to say they had rather be loaded with taxes than not.
There are necessary evils. Money is an important thing in terms of representing freedom in our world. And now I have a daughter to think about. It's really the first time I've thought about the future and what it could be.
Posterity: you will never know how much it has cost my generation to preserve your freedom. I hope you will make good use of it.
Perhaps religious conscience upsets the designs of those who feel that the highest wisdom and authority comes from government. But from the beginning, this nation trusted in God, not man. Religious liberty is the first freedom in our Constitution.
Ultimately, America's answer to the intolerant man is diversity, the very diversity which our heritage of religious freedom has inspired.
Religious freedom opens a door for Americans that is closed to too many others around the world. But whether we walk through that door, and what we do with our lives after we do, is up to us.
Freedom. Freedom of religion. Freedom to speak their mind. Freedom to build a life. And yes, freedom to build a business. With their own hands. This is the essence of the American experience.
History does not long entrust the care of freedom to the weak or the timid.
Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.
You don't have freedom because you are a hyphenated American you have freedom because you are an individual, and that should be protected.
We can be thankful to a friend for a few acres, or a little money and yet for the freedom and command of the whole earth, and for the great benefits of our being, our life, health, and reason, we look upon ourselves as under no obligation.
A man may be a pessimistic determinist before lunch and an optimistic believer in the will's freedom after it.
They won't break me because the desire for freedom, and the freedom of the Irish people, is in my heart. The day will dawn when all the people of Ireland will have the desire for freedom to show. It is then that we will see the rising of the moon.
And let me make this very clear - unlike President Obama, I will not raise taxes on the middle class. As president, I will protect the sanctity of life. I will honor the institution of marriage. And I will guarantee America's first liberty: the freedom of religion.
We still believe in the America that is a land of opportunity and a beacon of freedom. We believe in the America that challenges each of us to be better and bigger than ourselves.
Since Castro took power, the Cuban people have been denied basic human freedoms. No freedom of religion, no freedom of the press, no political freedom. And the regime uses brutality and violence to suppress these freedoms and impose its will.
Your true traveller finds boredom rather agreeable than painful. It is the symbol of his liberty - his excessive freedom. He accepts his boredom, when it comes, not merely philosophically, but almost with pleasure.
Every friend of freedom must be as revolted as I am by the prospect of turning the United States into an armed camp, by the vision of jails filled with casual drug users and of an army of enforcers empowered to invade the liberty of citizens on slight evidence.
We are faced with the paradoxical fact that education has become one of the chief obstacles to intelligence and freedom of thought.
Back a hundred years ago, especially around Woodrow Wilson, what happened in this country is we took freedom and we chopped it into pieces.
When one makes a Revolution, one cannot mark time one must always go forward - or go back. He who now talks about the 'freedom of the press' goes backward, and halts our headlong course towards Socialism.
Pakistan not only means freedom and independence but the Muslim Ideology which has to be preserved, which has come to us as a precious gift and treasure and which, we hope other will share with us.
The words spoken by the leader of the free world can expand the frontiers of freedom or shrink them. When Ronald Reagan called on Gorbachev to 'tear down this wall,' a surge of confidence rose that would ultimately breach the bounds of the evil empire.
Make no mistake, in this campaign, I will offer the American ideals of economic freedom a clear and unapologetic defense.
President Obama orders religious organizations to violate their conscience. I will defend religious liberty and overturn regulations that trample on our first freedom.
I don't want to transform America. I want to restore to America the economic values of freedom and opportunity and limited government that has made us the powerhouse of the world.
The secret of freedom lies in educating people, whereas the secret of tyranny is in keeping them ignorant.
There are 4 billion cell phones in use today. Many of them are in the hands of market vendors, rickshaw drivers, and others who've historically lacked access to education and opportunity. Information networks have become a great leveler, and we should use them together to help lift people out of poverty and give them a freedom from want.
The worst enemy of life, freedom and the common decencies is total anarchy their second worst enemy is total efficiency.
Those who profess to favor freedom, and yet depreciate agitation, are men who want crops without plowing up the ground.
I believe all Americans who believe in freedom, tolerance and human rights have a responsibility to oppose bigotry and prejudice based on sexual orientation.
There can be no real freedom without the freedom to fail.
Freedom in art, freedom in society, this is the double goal towards which all consistent and logical minds must strive.
The only way that has ever been discovered to have a lot of people cooperate together voluntarily is through the free market. And that's why it's so essential to preserving individual freedom.
No nation could preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare.
When people talk of the freedom of writing, speaking or thinking I cannot choose but laugh. No such thing ever existed. No such thing now exists but I hope it will exist. But it must be hundreds of years after you and I shall write and speak no more.
Freedom is hammered out on the anvil of discussion, dissent, and debate.
Be strong, believe in freedom and in God, love yourself, understand your sexuality, have a sense of humor, masturbate, don't judge people by their religion, color or sexual habits, love life and your family.
The more decisions that you are forced to make alone, the more you are aware of your freedom to choose.
Freedom is the freedom to say that two plus two make four. If that is granted, all else follows.
You don't have to be a man to fight for freedom. All you have to do is to be an intelligent human being.
Emancipation from the bondage of the soil is no freedom for the tree.
Freedom from the desire for an answer is essential to the understanding of a problem.
There is nothing wrong with America that faith, love of freedom, intelligence, and energy of her citizens cannot cure.
I know but one freedom, and that is the freedom of the mind.
Freedom is not something that one people can bestow on another as a gift. Thy claim it as their own and none can keep it from them.
Analysis does not set out to make pathological reactions impossible, but to give the patient's ego freedom to decide one way or another.
Pervading nationalism imposes its dominion on man today in many different forms and with an aggressiveness that spares no one. The challenge that is already with us is the temptation to accept as true freedom what in reality is only a new form of slavery.
A major source of objection to a free economy is precisely that group thinks they ought to want. Underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of belief in freedom itself.
Freedom is the most contagious virus known to man.
Freedom in general may be defined as the absence of obstacles to the realization of desires.
Shall I tell you what the real evil is? To cringe to the things that are called evils, to surrender to them our freedom, in defiance of which we ought to face any suffering.
Freedom in capitalist society always remains about the same as it was in ancient Greek republics: Freedom for slave owners.
Fear is not in the habit of speaking truth when perfect sincerity is expected, perfect freedom must be allowed nor has anyone who is apt to be angry when he hears the truth any cause to wonder that he does not hear it.
Freedom of opinion can only exist when the government thinks itself secure.
Both the American people and nations that censor the internet should understand that our government is committed to helping promote internet freedom.
If a nation values anything more than freedom, it will lose its freedom, and the irony of it is that if it is comfort or money that it values more, it will lose that too.
We gain freedom when we have paid the full price.
I know of no country in which there is so little independence of mind and real freedom of discussion as in America.
Perhaps the fact that we have seen millions voting themselves into complete dependence on a tyrant has made our generation understand that to choose one's government is not necessarily to secure freedom.
The family is the test of freedom because the family is the only thing that the free man makes for himself and by himself.
Freedom is not procured by a full enjoyment of what is desired, but by controlling the desire.
Freedom means the right of people to assemble, organize, and debate openly.
What then is freedom? The power to live as one wishes.
Freedom is a possession of inestimable value.
Freedom is the right to live as we wish.
If there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of free thought, not free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the thought that we hate.
Freedom comes only to those who no longer ask of life that it shall yield them any of those personal goods that are subject to the mutations of time.
Only our individual faith in freedom can keep us free.
How often I have found that we grow to maturity not by doing what we like, but by doing what we should. How true it is that not every 'should' is a compulsion, and not every 'like' is a high morality and true freedom.
Just living is not enough. One must have sunshine, freedom, and a little flower.
Freedom - to walk free and own no superior.
Forgiveness is the key to action and freedom.
Underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of belief in freedom itself.
Freedom itself was attacked this morning by a faceless coward, and freedom will be defended.
History has taught us over and over again that freedom is not free. When push comes to shove, the ultimate protectors of freedom and liberty are the brave men and women in our armed forces. Throughout our history, they've answered the call in bravery and sacrifice.
The end of law is not to abolish or restrain, but to preserve and enlarge freedom. For in all the states of created beings capable of law, where there is no law, there is no freedom.
Everywhere that freedom stirs, let tyrants fear.
History suggests that capitalism is a necessary condition for political freedom. Clearly it is not a sufficient condition.
A filmmaker has almost the same freedom as a novelist has when he buys himself some paper.
In this possibly terminal phase of human existence, democracy and freedom are more than just ideals to be valued - they may be essential to survival.
The greatest threat to freedom is the absence of criticism.
When there is state there can be no freedom, but when there is freedom there will be no state.
We seek peace, knowing that peace is the climate of freedom.
Governments that block the aspirations of their people, that steal or are corrupt, that oppress and torture or that deny freedom of expression and human rights should bear in mind that they will find it increasingly hard to escape the judgement of their own people, or where warranted, the reach of international law.
We cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home.
Americans admire a people who can scratch a desert and produce a garden. The Israelis have shown qualities that Americans identify with: guts, patriotism, idealism, a passion for freedom. I have seen it. I know. I believe that.
Any nation that thinks more of its ease and comfort than its freedom will soon lose its freedom and the ironical thing about it is that it will lose its ease and comfort too.
I begin to feel like most Americans don't understand the First Amendment, don't understand the idea of freedom of speech, and don't understand that it's the responsibility of the citizen to speak out.
The secret to happiness is freedom... And the secret to freedom is courage.
Liberals, it has been said, are generous with other peoples' money, except when it comes to questions of national survival when they prefer to be generous with other people's freedom and security.
The intense happiness of our union is derived in a high degree from the perfect freedom with which we each follow and declare our own impressions.
Human beings the world over need freedom and security that they may be able to realize their full potential.
I stand for freedom of expression, doing what you believe in, and going after your dreams.
I come bearing an olive branch in one hand, and the freedom fighter's gun in the other. Do not let the olive branch fall from my hand.
Who is more to be pitied, a writer bound and gagged by policemen or one living in perfect freedom who has nothing more to say?
Personal identity seems like it's just such an American archetype, from Holly Golightly re-inventing herself in 'Breakfast At Tiffany's' to Jay Gatsby in 'The Great Gatsby.' It seems like the sort of archetypal American issue. If you're given the freedom to be anything, or be anyone, what do you do with it?
Satisfaction consists in freedom from pain, which is the positive element of life.
A just laicism allows religious freedom. The state does not impose religion but rather gives space to religions with a responsibility toward civil society, and therefore it allows these religions to be factors in building up society.
As soon as laws are necessary for men, they are no longer fit for freedom.
Power in defense of freedom is greater than power in behalf of tyranny and oppression.
One of the interesting things here is that the people who should be shaping the future are politicians. But the political framework itself is so dead and closed that people look to other sources, like artists, because art and music allow people a certain freedom.
No protracted war can fail to endanger the freedom of a democratic country.
I keep telling myself to calm down, to take less of an interest in things and not to get so excited, but I still care a lot about liberty, freedom of speech and expression, and fairness in journalism.
The success I have achieved in bodybuilding, motion pictures, and business would not have been possible without the generosity of the American people and the freedom here to pursue your dreams.
We are willing enough to praise freedom when she is safely tucked away in the past and cannot be a nuisance. In the present, amidst dangers whose outcome we cannot foresee, we get nervous about her, and admit censorship.
We have convinced over one billion members of the Islamic faith that we are prejudiced against their religion, that we would deny them freedom of religion, that we want suppress their culture and invade their governments.
137 years later, Memorial Day remains one of America's most cherished patriotic observances. The spirit of this day has not changed - it remains a day to honor those who died defending our freedom and democracy.
Freedom does not come without a price. We may sometimes take for granted the many liberties we enjoy in America, but they have all been earned through the ultimate sacrifice paid by so many of the members of our armed forces.
To become self-aware, people must be allowed to hear a plurality of opinions and then make up their own minds. They must be allowed to say, write and publish whatever they want. Freedom of expression is the most basic, but fundamental, right. Without it, human beings are reduced to automatons.
Freedom is a right ultimately defended by the sacrifice of America's servicemen and women.
There are days when solitude is a heady wine that intoxicates you with freedom, others when it is a bitter tonic, and still others when it is a poison that makes you beat your head against the wall.
I had crossed the line. I was free but there was no one to welcome me to the land of freedom. I was a stranger in a strange land.
No amount of political freedom will satisfy the hungry masses.
A Buddha is someone who finds freedom in good fortune and bad.
Before anything else, we need a new age of Enlightenment. Our present political systems must relinquish their claims on truth, justice and freedom and have to replace them with the search for truth, justice, freedom and reason.
The course of this conflict is not known, yet its outcome is certain. Freedom and fear, justice and cruelty, have always been at war, and we know that God is not neutral between them.
My desire to curtail undue freedom of speech extends only to such public areas as restaurants, airports, streets, hotel lobbies, parks, and department stores. Verbal exchanges between consenting adults in private are as of little interest to me as they probably are to them.
The hope and change the Democrats had in mind was nothing more than a retread of the failed and discredited socialist policies that have been the enemy of freedom for centuries all over the world. I fear America is teetering towards tyranny.
I am a lover of truth, a worshipper of freedom, a celebrant at the altar of language and purity and tolerance.
A state that suppresses all freedom of speech, and which by imposing the most terrible punishments, treats each and every attempt at criticism, however morally justified, and every suggestion for improvement as plotting to high treason, is a state that breaks an unwritten law.
Unnecessary possessions are unnecessary burdens. If you have them, you have to take care of them! There is great freedom in simplicity of living. It is those who have enough but not too much who are the happiest.
So long as you do not achieve social liberty, whatever freedom is provided by the law is of no avail to you.
You measure a democracy by the freedom it gives its dissidents, not the freedom it gives its assimilated conformists.
Freedom and order are not incompatible... truth is strength... free discussion is the very life of truth.
In my youth I stressed freedom, and in my old age I stress order. I have made the great discovery that liberty is a product of order.
America's greatness has been the greatness of a free people who shared certain moral commitments. Freedom without moral commitment is aimless and promptly self-destructive.
America is a model of force and freedom and moderation - with all the coarseness and rudeness of its people.
The wisest use of American strength is to advance freedom.
Freedom would be not to choose between black and white but to abjure such prescribed choices.
Punk has always been about doing things your own way. What it represents for me is ultimate freedom and a sense of individuality.
I love music. It's freedom, a way to deal with pent-up frustration.
For us democracy is a question of human dignity. And human dignity is political freedom.
Only people who have been allowed to practise freedom can have the grown-up look in their eyes.
The United Nations is designed to make possible lasting freedom and independence for all its members.
No slavery can be abolished without a double emancipation, and the master will benefit by freedom more than the freed-man.
The only freedom I care about is the freedom to do right the freedom to do wrong I am ready to part with on the cheapest terms to anyone who will take it of me.
Justice is never given it is exacted and the struggle must be continuous for freedom is never a final fact, but a continuing evolving process to higher and higher levels of human, social, economic, political and religious relationship.
While the State exists there can be no freedom when there is freedom there will be no State.
Even before I knew I was gay, I knew I didn't want to have a child. I knew I didn't want to have one. I never want to have to release it from me. Listen, I love babies. I love children. And I melt when I'm around them. I also love my freedom and I love that I can sleep at night.
Fiction is such a world of freedom, it's wonderful. If you want someone to fly, they can fly.
If one more 'journalist' makes a cavalier statement about me and my band, I will personally or with my fans' help, greet them at their home and discover just how much they believe in their freedom of speech.
We will not be intimidated or pushed off the world stage by people who do not like what we stand for, and that is, freedom, democracy and the fight against disease, poverty and terrorism.
Just living is not enough... one must have sunshine, freedom, and a little flower.
The freedom to fail is vital if you're going to succeed. Most successful people fail from time to time, and it is a measure of their strength that failure merely propels them into some new attempt at success.
I believe that God has planted in every heart the desire to live in freedom.
American and Israel share a special bond. Our relationship is unique among all nations. Like America, Israel is a strong democracy, a symbol of freedom, and an oasis of liberty, a home to the oppressed and persecuted.
All people hope Islam helps everything in life. Islam will make jobs. Islam will make freedom. Islam will make everything.
There are two good things in life - freedom of thought and freedom of action.
As we look forward to freedom, the shining city on the hill and the best days of America lying ahead, it is the men and women in uniform who protect, defend and make us proud to whom we should look and give thanks every night.
To be able to love and live in freedom means to be able to make godly decisions. To make godly decisions we have to surrender our egos and all the falsity and shame that goes with it.
The momentum of freedom in our world is unmistakable - and it is not carried forward by our power alone. We can trust in that greater power Who guides the unfolding of the years. And in all that is to come, we can know that His purposes are just and true.
Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of religion all have a double aspect - freedom of thought and freedom of action.
Anywhere, anytime ordinary people are given the chance to choose, the choice is the same: freedom, not tyranny democracy, not dictatorship the rule of law, not the rule of the secret police.
Much literary criticism comes from people for whom extreme specialization is a cover for either grave cerebral inadequacy or terminal laziness, the latter being a much cherished aspect of academic freedom.
You can't put democracy and freedom back into a box.
How does the Meadow flower its bloom unfold? Because the lovely little flower is free down to its root, and in that freedom bold.
Freedom of speech is always under attack by Fascist mentality, which exists in all parts of the world, unfortunately.
Racism is a refuge for the ignorant. It seeks to divide and to destroy. It is the enemy of freedom, and deserves to be met head-on and stamped out.
Struggle is a never ending process. Freedom is never really won, you earn it and win it in every generation.
Education is a human right with immense power to transform. On its foundation rest the cornerstones of freedom, democracy and sustainable human development.
True freedom is where an individual's thoughts and actions are in alignment with that which is true, correct, and of honor - no matter the personal price.
To enjoy freedom we have to control ourselves.
Men who want to support women in our struggle for freedom and justice should understand that it is not terrifically important to us that they learn to cry it is important to us that they stop the crimes of violence against us.
Novelists have always had complete freedom to pretty much tell their story any way they saw fit. And that's what I'm trying to do.
Our society is illuminated by the spiritual insights of the Hebrew prophets. America and Israel have a common love of human freedom, and they have a common faith in a democratic way of life.
A political prisoner is someone who is out fighting for his or her people's rights and freedom and is imprisoned for that alone.
Today's Constitution is a realistic document of freedom only because of several corrective amendments. Those amendments speak to a sense of decency and fairness that I and other Blacks cherish.
True independence and freedom can only exist in doing what's right.
I am conservative with a small 'c.' It's possible to be conservative in fiscal policy, and tolerant on moral issues or questions of freedom of expression.
Freedom granted only when it is known beforehand that its effects will be beneficial is not freedom.
Analysis gave me great freedom of emotions and fantastic confidence. I felt I had served my time as a puppet.
In South Africa, we could not have achieved our freedom and just peace without the help of people around the world, who through the use of non-violent means, such as boycotts and divestment, encouraged their governments and other corporate actors to reverse decades-long support for the Apartheid regime.
Pleasure and freedom from pain, are the only things desirable as ends.
Look, freedom is an overwhelming American notion. The idea that we want to see the world, the peoples of the world free is something that all of us subscribe to.
We must face the fact that the preservation of individual freedom is incompatible with a full satisfaction of our views of distributive justice.
Thought takes man out of servitude, into freedom.
Art gives me the freedom I don't have when I make music.
For all who love freedom and peace, the world without Saddam Hussein's regime is a better and safer place.
The terrorists are fighting freedom with all their cunning and cruelty because freedom is their greatest fear - and they should be afraid, because freedom is on the march.
The road to freedom lies not through mysteries or occult performances, but through the intelligent use of natural forces and laws.
That's what we do in this country. That's the American Dream. That's freedom, and I'll take it any day over the supervision and sanctimony of the central planners.
I don't like definitions, but if there is a definition of freedom, it would be when you have control over your reality to transform it, to change it, rather than having it imposed upon you. You can't really ask for more than.
God tolerates even our stammering, and pardons our ignorance whenever something inadvertently escapes us - as, indeed, without this mercy there would be no freedom to pray.
A nation which makes the final sacrifice for life and freedom does not get beaten.
When you're not concerned with succeeding, you can work with complete freedom.
Secrecy is the freedom tyrants dream of.
Watching President Obama apologize last week for America's arrogance - before a French audience that owes its freedom to the sacrifices of Americans - helped convince me that he has a deep-seated antipathy toward American values and traditions.
Art requires neither complaisance nor politeness nothing but faith, faith and freedom.
If the events of September 11, 2001, have proven anything, it's that the terrorists can attack us, but they can't take away what makes us American - our freedom, our liberty, our civil rights. No, only Attorney General John Ashcroft can do that.
Our culture is just a series of checks and balances. The whole idea that we're in a battle between tyranny and freedom - it's a series of pendulum swings.
But if you can create an honorable livelihood, where you take your skills and use them and you earn a living from it, it gives you a sense of freedom and allows you to balance your life the way you want.
But, I don't think any arranger should ever write a drum part for a drummer because if a drummer can't create his own Interpretation of the chart and he plays everything that's written, he becomes mechanical he has no freedom.
The degree of freedom from unwanted thoughts and the degree of concentration on a single thought are the measures to gauge spiritual progress.
Freedom is always and exclusively freedom for the one who thinks differently.
Back then I didn't think a woman like that, or a relationship like that, could exist with complete freedom and no jealousy or possessiveness. I thought it sounded too good to be true and I was certainly convinced it wasn't the life for me!
I think this society suffers so much from too much freedom, too many rights that allow people to be irresponsible.
But I found that disappointing people is a good thing, because disapproval is freedom.
It is easy to believe in freedom of speech for those with whom we agree.
America, to me, is freedom.
The new freedom of expression brought by the Internet goes far beyond politics. People relate to each other in new ways, posing questions about how we should respond to people when all that we know about them is what we have learned through a medium that permits all kinds of anonymity and deception.
The man form is higher than the angel form of all forms it is the highest. Man is the highest being in creation, because he aspires to freedom.
What is the conservative movement? It's pretty straightforward. We believe that the way prosperity is created is when people have the freedom and the opportunity to pursue their dreams.
Many politicians are in the habit of laying it down as a self-evident proposition that no people ought to be free till they are fit to use their freedom. The maxim is worthy of the fool in the old story who resolved not to go into the water till he had learned to swim.
Here's a nation, one of the founding pillars was freedom of speech and freedom of expression. And yet, we have imposed upon people restrictions on what they can say, on what they can think. And the media is the largest proponent of this, crucifying people who say things really quite innocently.
You can't separate peace from freedom because no one can be at peace unless he has his freedom.
The history of the world is none other than the progress of the consciousness of freedom.
Freedom means the opportunity to be what we never thought we would be.
Freedom is fragile and must be protected. To sacrifice it, even as a temporary measure, is to betray it.
No one can enjoy freedom without trembling.
I'm not sure if it's good to have freedom or not. I'm really confused now.
Freedom is not a gift nor does it simply exist for us to have, but rather it is a sacred duty, and its blessed yield of hope is born from none other than the blood of the innocent.
Obedience is detachment from the self. This is the most radical detachment of all. But what is the self? The self is the principle of reason and responsibility in us. It is the root of freedom, it is what makes us men.
What is the essence of America? Finding and maintaining that perfect, delicate balance between freedom 'to' and freedom 'from.'
The precondition to freedom is security.
The best way to enhance freedom in other lands is to demonstrate here that our democratic system is worthy of emulation.
I've used the prestige and influence of having been a president of the United States as effectively as possible. And secondly, I've still been able to carry out my commitments to peace and human rights and environmental quality and freedom and democracy and so forth.
But on average, I go to the gym about four or five times a week. Today, I'm so experienced in training - I'm actually listening to my body now. My body needs freedom. When I train I create serenity and I produce oxygen in my blood. It helps me to think better and relax. By training, you accentuate the problem.
We don't appreciate what we have until it's gone. Freedom is like that. It's like air. When you have it, you don't notice it.
There should be a sympathy with freedom, a desire to give it scope, founded not upon visionary ideas, but upon the long experience of many generations within the shores of this happy isle, that in freedom you lay the firmest foundations both of loyalty and order.
A mere forty years ago, beach volleyball was just beginning. No bureaucrat would have invented it, and that's what freedom is all about.
No cause is left but the most ancient of all, the one, in fact, that from the beginning of our history has determined the very existence of politics, the cause of freedom versus tyranny.
Victorious living does not mean freedom from temptation, nor does it mean freedom from mistakes.
To me, freedom entitles you to do something, not to not do something.
A person is a fool to become a writer. His only compensation is absolute freedom.
And why do we, who say we oppose tyranny and demand freedom of speech, allow people to go to prison and be vilified, and magazines to be closed down on the spot, for suggesting another version of history.
The Jewish festival of freedom is the oldest continuously observed religious ritual in the world. Across the centuries, Passover has never lost its power to inspire the imagination of successive generations of Jews with its annually re-enacted drama of slavery and liberation.
Don't ever dare to take your college as a matter of course - because, like democracy and freedom, many people you'll never know have broken their hearts to get it for you.
The freedom to be an individual is the essence of America.
As a consequence of the victories we have registered during our first ten years of freedom, we have laid a firm foundation for the new advances we must and will make during the next decade.
I've returned to being an amateur without any ties or strings attached, which gives me a freedom I never had before.
In many respects, the United States is a great country. Freedom of speech is protected more than in any other country. It is also a very free society.
Working with HBO was an opportunity to experience creative freedom and 'long-form development' that filmmakers didn't have a chance to do before the emergence of shows like 'The Sopranos.'
Freedom, morality, and the human dignity of the individual consists precisely in this that he does good not because he is forced to do so, but because he freely conceives it, wants it, and loves it.
In a completely sane world, madness is the only freedom.
I felt extremely uncomfortable as the focal point, in the spotlight. I really like the behind the scenes role, because all my freedom is there.
The general interest of the masses might take the place of the insight of genius if it were allowed freedom of action.
When we talk of freedom and opportunity for all nations, the mocking paradoxes in our own society become so clear they can no longer be ignored.
For you who no longer posses it, freedom is everything, for us who do, it is merely an illusion.
Negation is the mind's first freedom, yet a negative habit is fruitful only so long as we exert ourselves to overcome it, adapt it to our needs once acquired it can imprison us.
We chose more freedom instead of more government. We chose the principles of our founding to solve the challenges of our time. We chose a special man to lead us in a special time. We chose Mitt Romney to lead our nation.
I think there's some connection between absolute discipline and absolute freedom.
In 1960, when I came out of prison as an ex-convict, I had more freedom under parolee supervision than there's available... in America right now.
It is very easy to make clear what you want a film to say, but I did not wish to engage in overt propaganda, even for the right cause. I wanted to create an experience through the films, something where people could have the freedom of their own response to them.
Among the many values in life, I appreciate freedom most.
It is clear that not in one thing alone, but in many ways equality and freedom of speech are a good thing.
And it's one thing to give people freedom and something else to deny the rights of Christians to assert their faith in order to keep Hindus from feeling upset.
The day will dawn when all the people of Ireland will have the desire for freedom to show. It is then we'll see the rising of the moon.
Not to sound overly cheesy but I really appreciate the freedom we have in America - especially as a female.
The political core of any movement for freedom in the society has to have the political imperative to protect free speech.
Among the best traitors Ireland has ever had, Mother Church ranks at the very top, a massive obstacle in the path to equality and freedom. She has been a force for conservatism... to ward off threats to her own security and influence.
It requires greater courage to preserve inner freedom, to move on in one's inward journey into new realms, than to stand defiantly for outer freedom. It is often easier to play the martyr, as it is to be rash in battle.
No people in history have ever survived who thought they could protect their freedom by making themselves inoffensive to their enemies.
We are living in the excesses of freedom. Just take a look at 42nd Street and Broadway.
Civilization is the order and freedom is promoting cultural activity.
Every therapeutic cure, and still more, any awkward attempt to show the patient the truth, tears him from the cradle of his freedom from responsibility and must therefore reckon with the most vehement resistance.
In health there is freedom. Health is the first of all liberties.
Old age, calm, expanded, broad with the haughty breadth of the universe, old age flowing free with the delicious near-by freedom of death.
Once I know people know who I am, it gives me a lot of licence and freedom to behave in ways I wouldn't normally.
But it wasn't until I graduated from Texas A &amp M University and joined the United States Air Force, flying C-130's all around the globe, that I truly appreciated the blessings of freedom.
I'm not a drug addict. My wild period wasn't about drugs it was about sexual freedom.
The State is the altar of political freedom and, like the religious altar, it is maintained for the purpose of human sacrifice.
As long as there is rape... there is not going to be any peace or justice or equality or freedom. You are not going to become what you want to become or who you want to become. You are not going to live in the world you want to live in.
There's a certain amount of freedom involved in cycling: you're self-propelled and decide exactly where to go. If you see something that catches your eye to the left, you can veer off there, which isn't so easy in a car, and you can't cover as much ground walking.
The magic of America is that we're a free and open society with a mixed population. Part of our security is our freedom.
The idea that men are created free and equal is both true and misleading: men are created different they lose their social freedom and their individual autonomy in seeking to become like each other.
It was so much fun to have the freedom to wander America, with no assignments. For 25 or 30 years I never had an assignment. These were all stories I wanted to do myself.
Freedom cannot be given... It can only be taken away.
I had spent many years pursuing excellence, because that is what classical music is all about... Now it was dedicated to freedom, and that was far more important.
There are lots of people out there who think they know the truth about God and religion, but does anybody really know for sure? That's why the founding fathers built freedom of religious belief into the structure of this nation, so that everybody could make up their minds for themselves.
True freedom requires the rule of law and justice, and a judicial system in which the rights of some are not secured by the denial of rights to others.
But if people want to swim in the Thames, if they want to take their lives into their own hands, then they should be able to do so with all the freedom and exhilaration of our woad-painted ancestors.
We in the United States should be all the more thankful for the freedom and religious tolerance we enjoy. And we should always remember the lessons learned from the Holocaust, in hopes we stay vigilant against such inhumanity now and in the future.
A nice, easy place for freedom of speech to be eroded is comics, because comics are a natural target whenever an election comes up.
The current total of countries in the world with First Amendments is one. You have guaranteed freedom of speech. Other countries don't have that.
We know there is no such thing as freedom without the risk of failure.
Fortunately, somewhere between chance and mystery lies imagination, the only thing that protects our freedom, despite the fact that people keep trying to reduce it or kill it off altogether.
We need the children of Indonesia and the Philippines to manufacture our freedom of choice.
And we can celebrate when we have a government that has earned back the trust of the people it serves... when we have a government that honors our Constitution and stands up for the values that have made America, America: economic freedom, individual liberty, and personal responsibility.
Hamas is a terrorist organization dedicated to annihilating the Jewish state. It runs a theocratic totalitarian state in Gaza, with no individual liberty, and no freedom of speech or press.
We know what works. Freedom Works. We know what's right. Freedom is right.
To me, the American Dream is being able to follow your own personal calling. To be able to do what you want to do is incredible freedom.
I can remember when Democrats believed that it was the duty of America to fight for freedom over tyranny.
The cause of freedom is not the cause of a race or a sect, a party or a class-it is the cause of human kind, the very birthright of humanity.
We call our country home of the brave and land of the free, but it's not. We give a false portrayal of freedom. We're not free - if we were, we'd allow people their freedom.
The clash of ideas is the sound of freedom.
A lot of people out there pay good lip service to the idea of personal freedom... right up to the point that someone tries to do something that they don't personally approve of.
The Ego is partly free. partly determined, and reaches fuller freedom by approaching the Individual who is most free: God.
Man cannot be free if he does not know that he is subject to necessity, because his freedom is always won in his never wholly successful attempts to liberate himself from necessity.
True human goodness, in all its purity and freedom, can come to the fore only when its recipient has no power.
Hero-worship is strongest where there is least regard for human freedom.
America is just the country that how all the written guarantees in the world for freedom are no protection against tyranny and oppression of the worst kind. There the politician has come to be looked upon as the very scum of society.
What we have at present is a system of loss socialism. Whatever goes wrong is shouldered by the general public and anything that works is privatised. Worshippers of market freedom have suspended the most important economic principle: Risk and liability go hand in hand.
In the literal sense, there has been no relevant evolution since the trek from Africa. But there has been substantial progress towards higher standards of rights, justice and freedom - along with all too many illustrations of how remote is the goal of a decent society.
Political Freedom without economic equality is a pretense, a fraud, a lie and the workers want no lying.
What Churchill described as the twin marauders of war and tyranny have been almost entirely banished from our continent. Today, hundreds of millions dwell in freedom, from the Baltic to the Adriatic, from the Western Approaches to the Aegean.
Today, hundreds of millions dwell in freedom, from the Baltic to the Adriatic, from the Western Approaches to the Aegean. And while we must never take this for granted, the first purpose of the European Union - to secure peace - has been achieved and we should pay tribute to all those in the EU, alongside Nato, who made that happen.
The enemies of freedom do not argue they shout and they shoot.
It is the people who scream the loudest about America and Freedom who see to be the most intolerant for a differing point of view.
To me, punk rock is the freedom to create, freedom to be successful, freedom to not be successful, freedom to be who you are. It's freedom.
So sometimes the facts are good and sometimes the facts are bad, the important thing from the point of view of a principle as broad and important as freedom of speech is that the courts articulate and set forth in a very protective way what those principles are.
I love to deer hunt and fish and drive down the back roads in my truck. All those things basically equal freedom to me - and not having to return that message or call from my record company or management. At some point, I need to recharge.
Institutions - government, churches, industries, and the like - have properly no other function than to contribute to human freedom and in so far as they fail, on the whole, to perform this function, they are wrong and need reconstruction.
Freedom is such a gift.
It is not the simple statement of facts that ushers in freedom it is the constant repetition of them that has this liberating effect. Tolerance is the result not of enlightenment, but of boredom.
The American dream is about freedom.
Freedom is secured every day by our men and women in uniform. We must build a future worthy of their sacrifice.
The greatest enemy of individual freedom is the individual himself.
I try to give the media as many confusing images as I can to retain my freedom. What's real is for my children and the people I live with.
One of the rewards of success is freedom, the ability to do whatever you like.
Ruin is the destination toward which all men rush, each pursuing his own best interest in a society that believes in the freedom of the commons.
Freedom in a commons brings ruin to all.
Freedom is the emancipation from the arbitrary rule of other men.
The freedom to criticize judges and other public officials is necessary to a vibrant democracy. The problem comes when healthy criticism is replaced with more destructive intimidation and sanctions.
I love the freedom of movement that my phone gives me. That has definitely transformed my life.
Until you have lost your reputation, you never realize what a burden it was or what freedom really is.
It is exactly because we are a city that embraces freedom, that welcomes everyone and encourages their dreams, that New York remains on the front lines in the war on terror.
Ironically, it is exactly because we are a city that embraces freedom, that welcomes everyone and encourages their dreams, that New York remains on the front lines in the war on terror.
I do think there are certain times we should infringe on your freedom.
To be honest, I've always had far too much freedom. I had a job when I was 10. I started living on my own when I was 17 or 18. I've earned my own money I've traveled the world. What would I rebel against?
I'm a multidimensional person and that's the freedom of fashion: that you're able to reinvent yourself through how you dress and how you cut your hair or whatever.
No one who has lived even for a fleeting moment for something other than life in its conventional sense and has experienced the exaltation that this feeling produces can then renounce his new freedom so easily.
Remove advertising, disable a person or firm from proclaiming its wares and their merits, and the whole of society and of the economy is transformed. The enemies of advertising are the enemies of freedom.
Most men, after a little freedom, have preferred authority with the consoling assurances and the economy of effort it brings.
So the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund is out there preserving and fighting for, and sometimes winning and sometimes losing, the fight for First Amendment rights in comics and, more generally, for freedom of speech.
There's a glorious sense of freedom in comedy, just allowing myself to tell jokes, allowing myself to interrupt myself and tell old African folk stories that I made up - or didn't - and Jamaican stories.
The worst enemy of truth and freedom in our society is the compact majority.
The pillars of truth and the pillars of freedom - they are the pillars of society.
Our forefathers got it they got it, man. They took godly principles and they put them into action, and they developed our Constitution - the land of freedom where each man is accountable and responsible for his actions.
The First Amendment freedom of religion is as important today as when the Bill of Rights was first written.
One certain effect of war is to diminish freedom of expression.
Certain things happened in the early church. Women who had never had any freedom suddenly have the ability to stand up and speak and be treated as equals within the life of the church.
Their poverty secured their freedom, since our desires and our possessions are the strongest fetters of despotism.
The only thing money gives you is the freedom of not worrying about money.
When a truth is not given complete freedom, freedom is not complete.
Human beings want to be free and however long they may agree to stay locked up, to stay oppressed, there will come a time when they say 'That's it.' Suddenly they find themselves doing something that they never would have thought they would be doing, simply because of the human instinct that makes them turn their face towards freedom.
We hold our heads high, despite the price we have paid, because freedom is priceless.
Freedom begins as we become conscious of it.
The problem of the world today is the people talk on and on about democracy, freedom, justice. But I don't give a damn about democracy if I am worried about survival.
There must be freedom for all to live, to think, to worship, no book, no avenue must be closed.
Freedom is the by-product of economic surplus.
While Democrats fussed with the details of health care reforms, conservatives spent months telling the nation that the real issue is freedom, that what's on the line is American liberty itself.
There are few things in politics more annoying than the Right's utter conviction that it owns the patent on the word 'freedom' that when its leaders stand up for the rights of banks to be unregulated or capital gains to be untaxed, that it is actually and obviously standing up for human liberty, the noblest cause of them all.
Women are degraded by the propensity to enjoy the present moment, and, at last, despise the freedom which they have not sufficient virtue to struggle to attain.
The condition every art requires is, not so much freedom from restriction, as freedom from adulteration and from the intrusion of foreign matter.
If you are for freedom and equal rights, which we hear a lot of talk about these days, then you have to include the LGBTQ community in that. And if you're not willing to put your time where your mouth is, then I don't know quite what you mean by commitment in your life.
The United States and Israel have a unique relationship based on our mutual commitment to democracy, freedom, and peace. Therefore, just as our commitment to these principles must be steadfast, so must our support for Israel.
Bush is morally a universalist. For instance, he says the freedom is good, the same thing is good, all over the world. So in that sense he's a universalist.
Bush sees the evil as out there in the wider world, residing in people who 'hate freedom'. Look at his immediate response to the pictures of prisoner abuse this is not what Americans do, these are not our values.
Freedom of conscience entails more dangers than authority and despotism.
I really feel that the talent I have is acting. Freedom and the possibility of play-that is what I like to have.
In the beginning, I loved being famous, but now I am tired of it and I would like to go back to my freedom.
The Bill of Rights was intended to secure freedom of speech - the freedom of speech of members of parliament to speak freely rather than be at threat of... the threat of an over powerful monarch at the time.
I will never understand people who think that the way to show their righteous opposition to sexual freedom is to write letters full of filthy words.
Well, the first thing is that truth and power for me form an antithesis, an antagonism, which will hardly ever be resolved. I can define in fact, can simplify the history of human society, the evolution of human society, as a contest between power and freedom.
My grandfather was a man, when he talked about freedom, his attitude was really interesting. His view was that you had obligations or you had responsibilities, and when you fulfilled those obligations or responsibilities, that then gave you the liberty to do other things.
Too much freedom can lead to the soul's decay.
Freedom has a price. Most people aren't willing to pay it.
Great research universities must insist on independence from government and on the exercise of academic freedom.
I was determined to achieve the total freedom that our history lessons taught us we were entitled to, no matter what the sacrifice.
Modernism released us from the constraints of everything that had gone before with a euphoric sense of freedom.
Resist this war on God, freedom of religion and freedom of speech.
I've come to realize that protecting freedom of choice in our everyday lives is essential to maintaining a healthy civil society.
To criticize a person for their race is manifestly irrational and ridiculous, but to criticize their religion, that is a right. That is a freedom.
For the past several years, I have remained what others would consider underground. I did this in order to build a community of people, like-minded in their desire for freedom and the right to pursue their goals and lives without being manipulated and controlled by a media protected military industrial complex with a completely different agenda.
As crucial as religion has been and is to the life of the nation, America's unifying force has never been a specific faith, but a commitment to freedom - not least freedom of conscience.
The spread of freedom is the best security for the free.
But there is a corollary to freedom and that's personal responsibility, and the real challenge is how you generate that personal responsibility without imposing it.
It is a strange fact that freedom and equality, the two basic ideas of democracy, are to some extent contradictory. Logically considered, freedom and equality are mutually exclusive, just as society and the individual are mutually exclusive.
My wife needs her freedom just like me.
You have the freedom to live and let live, to love and let love. Granting yourself that freedom is one of the healthiest, most constructive things you can do for yourself and the people who matter to you.
Beware how you trifle with your marvelous inheritance, this great land of ordered liberty, for if we stumble and fall, freedom and civilization everywhere will go down in ruin.
The Declaration of Independence was always our vision of who we wanted to be, our ideal of freedom and justice, how we were going to be different, and what the American experiment was going to be about.
Her beauty didn't do her any good and she couldn't use it in any positive way or manipulative way. I just hope that people will look and see and believe in that hope of love, that hope of freedom, even if it was just for a limited time.
The spirit of truth and the spirit of freedom - these are the pillars of society.
If our freedom is taken, the American dream will wither and die.
Now, one of the most essential branches of English liberty is the freedom of one's house.
The freedom that women were supposed to have found in the Sixties largely boiled down to easy contraception and abortion things to make life easier for men, in fact.
No, my work does not reflect my sexual preferences, it reflects the fact that I feel total freedom as an artist.
I like repressed characters. That gives me a lot of freedom to make a lot of different choices through subtleties.
The work of art is a scream of freedom.
As the fly bangs against the window attempting freedom while the door stands open, so we bang against death ignoring heaven.
Freedom of choice is more to be treasured than any possession earth can give.
You have riches and freedom here but I feel no sense of faith or direction. You have so many computers, why don't you use them in the search for love?
The hope of the nation which throughout the nineteenth century had not for a moment reconciled itself with the loss of independence, and fighting for its own freedom, fought at the same time for the freedom of other nations.
I most sincerely wish that the world in which we live be free from the threat of a nuclear holocaust and from the ruinous arms race. It is my cherished desire that peace be not separated from freedom which is the right of every nation. This I desire and for this I pray.
Freedom must be gained step by step, slowly. Freedom is a food which must be carefully administered when people are too hungry for it.
Freedom is an indivisible word. If we want to enjoy it, and fight for it, we must be prepared to extend it to everyone, whether they are rich or poor, whether they agree with us or not, no matter what their race or the color of their skin.
Freedom requires no effort to enjoy but requires heroic efforts to preserve.
I've got personal views on the '60s. You can't have freedom without paying the price for it.
We clearly realize that freedom's inner kingdom cannot be touched by exterior attacks.
If one is going to err, one should err on the side of liberty and freedom.
America's Veterans have served their country with the belief that democracy and freedom are ideals to be upheld around the world.
Music is where I have the most creative freedom, but I love producing. To me, that's kind of where all the action is. You get a chance to have your hands in every aspect of a film. From picking a director, sometimes picking a writer, to the actors, the wardrobe, set design, editing, music, and marketing.
Jobs mean freedom for workers to support their families.
Many will view the compromises that will be made during your negotiations as painful concessions. But why not view them as peace offerings, ones that will provide in return the priceless gifts of hope, security and freedom for our children and our children's?
Rock and roll music - the music of freedom frightens people and unleashes all manner of conservative defense mechanisms.
Freedom is man's capacity to take a hand in his own development. It is our capacity to mold ourselves.
Human freedom involves our capacity to pause, to choose the one response toward which we wish to throw our weight.
You can be a thousand different women. It's your choice which one you want to be. It's about freedom and sovereignty. You celebrate who you are. You say, 'This is my kingdom.'
Israel was born under the British mandate. We learned from the British what democracy means, and how it behaves in a time of danger, war and terror. We thank Britain for introducing freedom and respect of human rights both in normal and demanding circumstances.
When the United States was founded, the very idea of a nation premised on democratic principles of freedom and tolerance was viewed by the vast majority of the world as an experiment doomed to fail. Dictatorships, monarchies, and theocracies had for many centuries ruled the world.
If you don't mind haunting the margins, I think there is more freedom there.
We know from our own history that democratic institutions take decades to mature, and we know from past conflicts that freedom is not free.
If it's total freedom, I guess the ultimate thing you can go into is total silence between the audience and performer, with the performer projecting something he doesn't even have to play.
We know the road to freedom has always been stalked by death.
Freedom from care and anxiety of mind is a blessing, which I apprehend such people enjoy in higher perfection than most others, and is of the utmost consequence.
We all have the right of freedom of speech under the First Amendment. We all don't have to agree with one another on our opinions. Everyone in my circle, that I run around with, we all feel the same about God, country, integrity and character.
Next in importance to freedom and justice is popular education, without which neither freedom nor justice can be permanently maintained.
An almost hysterical antagonism toward the gold standard is one issue which unites statists of all persuasions. They seem to sense... that gold and economic freedom are inseparable.
Any one who wants to live in peace and freedom will be to live by toil, demonstration of high levels of discipline and tolerance for one another.
Laying tracks gives you freedom without being too obvious.
Woe to that nation whose literature is cut short by the intrusion of force. This is not merely interference with freedom of the press but the sealing up of a nation's heart, the excision of its memory.
Bastard Freedom waves Her fustian flag in mockery over slaves.
I think to be - for me to be an American is - you know, it's one of the greatest things in the world for - you know, for me just because I've been able to grow up with everything. The freedom. You know, in my eyes this is the greatest country in the world.
We don't have an Official Secrets Act in the United States, as other countries do. Under the First Amendment, freedom of the press, freedom of speech, and freedom of association are more important than protecting secrets.
Those who write the editorials and those who write the columns, they simply are unaccountable. They're free to impose their cultural politics in the name of freedom of the press.
I believe firmly that in making ethical decisions, man has the prerogative of true freedom of choice.
True freedom is the capacity for acting according to one's true character, to be altogether one's self, to be self-determined and not subject to outside coercion.
Now, do I think there has to be shared sacrifice among other nations in the world who want a stable and secure world? Absolutely, there has to be. But I don't think that America can ever abdicate its leadership role in the world because of who we are and where we've come from. We are the symbol for the world for freedom and liberty.
It is true you cannot eat freedom and you cannot power machinery with democracy. But then neither can political prisoners turn on the light in the cells of a dictatorship.
One man's blasphemy doesn't override other people's free-speech rights, their freedom to publish, freedom of thought.
We must plan for freedom, and not only for security, if for no other reason than that only freedom can make security secure.
Because if you lived, as I did, several years under Nazi totalitarianism, and then 20 years in communist totalitarianism, you would certainly realize how precious freedom is, and how easy it is to lose your freedom.
If this liberal potential is properly channeled, we may expect the area of freedom of the United States to increase. The problem is to spend up our rate of social invention in the service of the welfare of all the people.
He who believes in freedom of the will has never loved and never hated.
Anything outside marriage seems like freedom and excitement.
There are forces all around you who wish to exploit division, rob you of your freedom, and tell you what to think. But young folks can rekindle the weary spirit of a slumbering nation.
I tasted freedom and I really liked it.
In the end, nature is inexorable: it has no reason to hurry and, sooner or later, it takes what belongs to it. Unconsciously and inflexibly obedient to its own laws, it doesn't know art, just as it doesn't know freedom, just as it doesn't know goodness.
Freedom is not won by merely overthrowing a tyrannical ruler or an oppressive regime. That is usually only the prelude to a new tyranny, a new oppression.
Freedom begins with what we teach our children. That is why Jews became a people whose passion is education, whose heroes are teachers and whose citadels are schools.
The message of Passover remains as powerful as ever. Freedom is won not on the battlefield but in the classroom and the home. Teach your children the history of freedom if you want them never to lose it.
What creates freedom? A revolution in the streets? Mass protest? Civil war? A change of government? The ousting of the old guard and its replacement by the new? History, more often than not, shows that hopes raised by such events are often dashed, sooner rather than later.
The financial reward is great and I love the life I have, but all money makes possible is for you to stop worrying about money. Then you have freedom to live your life.
When I was teaching in the 1960s in Boston, there was a great deal of hope in the air. Martin Luther King Jr. was alive, Malcolm X was alive great, great leaders were emerging from the southern freedom movement.
The American experience influenced my understanding of individuality, basic human rights, freedom of expression and the rights and responsibilities of citizens.
Take young researchers, put them together in virtual seclusion, give them an unprecedented degree of freedom and turn up the pressure by fostering competitiveness.
I learned what I really love is making films, not the film business. I want to be on the set, meeting with writers, I want that freedom. I love it now.
Never wear your best trousers when you go out to fight for freedom and truth.
You know, if you are kind of rich, the best thing is that you don't have to think about money. The best thing you can buy with money is freedom, time. I don't know how much I earn a year. I have no idea. I don't know how much I pay in taxes.
I think we recognize as Americans there are certain things that are just primary to the freedoms and liberties that we enjoy here and religious freedom is one of the most important things we as Americans cherish.
To us Americans much has been given of us much is required. With all our faults and mistakes, it is our strength in support of the freedom our forefathers loved which has saved mankind from subjection to totalitarian power.
All Americans value the freedom of speech and the freedom of the press, and I believe this is essential for our continued way of life. But with this freedom comes responsibility. That responsibility has been abdicated here by some in the media and some in the government.
I've never understood why people consider youth a time of freedom and joy. It's probably because they have forgotten their own.
I like the freedom of podcasting. With podcasting you can really mess around with the form and the format. You can do as much time as you like without having to pause for commercials.
I wanted to try to push some freedom into the men's clothes.
Religious tolerance is something we should all practice however, there have been more persecution and atrocities committed in the name of religion and religious freedom than anything else.
A free and truly independent press - fiercely independent when necessary - is the red beating heart of freedom and democracy.
After the tragedy, New Yorkers are more united than ever in their vision, as well as in appreciation what living in freedom means - and that if we stand together, we can accomplish anything.
Roosevelt talked not only about Freedom from Fear, but also Freedom from Want.
The greatest blessing of our democracy is freedom. But in the last analysis, our only freedom is the freedom to discipline ourselves.
Well, I'm a libertarian conservative, so I believe in limited government/maximum individual freedom.
All the characters in my films are fighting these problems, needing freedom, trying to find a way to cut themselves loose, but failing to rid themselves of conscience, a sense of sin, the whole bag of tricks.
I don't think that artists of any kind would or could sacrifice their artistic freedom by being more responsible with their influence on people, especially young people.
If you can make people understand why freedom is so important through the arts, that would be a big help.
I remain optimistic. What we've seen in Europe and the rest of the world is that freedom has a much stronger attraction than radical fundamentalism.
Criticism of government finds sanctuary in several portions of the 1st Amendment. It is part of the right of free speech. It embraces freedom of the press.
So far as discipline is concerned, freedom means not its absence but the use of higher and more rational forms as contrasted with those that are lower or less rational.
Every general increase of freedom is accompanied by some degeneracy, attributable to the same causes as the freedom.
Giving up even an ounce of precious freedom is a very serious thing to do.
But short films are not inferior, just different. I think the short gives a freedom to film-makers. What's appealing is that you don't have as much responsibility for storytelling and plot. They can be more like a portrait, or a poem.
They have the ability to take a person's freedom from them. On certain situations, they have the ability to take a person's reputation. And under certain circumstances, they have the authority to take a person's life.
When others stood idly by, you and your families gave your all, in defence of a risen people and in pursuit of Irish freedom and unity.
I feel like my honesty gives people the freedom to talk about things they wouldn't otherwise.
My view is that good community management is like having good municipal government: You should be able to have dissenting opinions and so on, freedom of speech, but your grandmother should also be able to walk down the street at night without having to worry about getting mugged.
I now bid farewell to the country of my birth - of my passions - of my death a country whose misfortunes have invoked my sympathies - whose factions I sought to quell - whose intelligence I prompted to a lofty aim - whose freedom has been my fatal dream.
Peace with the Palestinians will open ports of peace all around the Mediterranean. The duty of leaders is to pursue freedom ceaselessly, even in the face of hostility, in the face of doubt and disappointment. Just imagine what could be.
I call on the Iranian people: it is not too late to replace the corrupt regime and return to your glorious Persian heritage, a heritage of culture and values and not of bombs and missiles... How can a nation allow a regime to instill fear, take away the people's freedom and shock the young generation that seeks its way out of the dictatorial Iran.
The Middle East is ailing. The malady stems from pervasive violence, shortages of food, water and educational opportunities, discrimination against women and - the most virulent cause of all - the absence of freedom.
My heart goes out to the brave citizens of Syria, who each day risk and even sacrifice their lives to achieve freedom from a murderous regime. We in Israel welcome the historic struggle to forge democratic, peace-loving governments in our region.
Rosa Parks was the queen mother of a movement whose single act of heroism sparked the movement for freedom, justice and equality. Her greatest contribution is that she told us a regular person can make a difference.
We who officially value freedom of speech above life itself seem to have nothing to talk about but the weather.
Today is a celebration of hope for the Iraqi people. The Iraqi people can now take control of their government and their future by creating a society that protects the rights endowed to us by our creator - life, liberty and freedom.
Motorists who want to save money on gas will demand and buy more fuel-efficient vehicles. We should not limit their freedom with more government regulations.
More than anything else, let me be clear - we need to be willing to fight for freedom, and free markets, and traditional moral values. That's what the American people want to see this movement and this party return to.
I was intelligent enough to make up my own mind. I not only had freedom of choice, I had freedom of expression.
Personal technology has given us the freedom of being able to do whatever we want - and in the case of celebrities and athletes, whomever they want. But it can also serve as a humiliation jetpack.
The year most of my high school friends and I got our driver's permits, the coolest thing one could do was stand outside after school and twirl one's car keys like a lifeguard whistle. That jingling sound meant freedom and power.
I don't believe in firing professors. They have academic freedom.
We believe it wrong ever to take a dollar from a free citizen without a very necessary public purpose, because each such taking diminishes the freedom to spend that dollar as its owner would prefer.
I defend both the freedom of expression and society's right to counter it. I must pay the price for differing. It is the natural way of things.
Americans are free to choose everything from what they eat, drive and watch on TV to the President of the United States. Yet, when it comes to allowing Americans to choose the health insurance that works best for them and their family, the freedom to choose suddenly becomes un-American.
I think the American people have become more reliant upon government and less reliant upon themselves and that they now tend to put security ahead of freedom, but I think freedom is the most important aspect of our lives.
If they want to hang me, let them. And on the scaffold I will shout Freedom for the working class!
That's why I like fast film. It gives you more freedom to light more naturally.
Whatever the immediate gains and losses, the dangers to our safety arising from political suppression are always greater than the dangers to the safety resulting from political freedom. Suppression is always foolish. Freedom is always wise.
No, I don't believe in genius. I believe in freedom. I think anyone can do it. Anyone can be like Rembrandt.
Well, one thing, you got to stand in a courtroom and listen to a judge sentencing you to 25 years in prison before you realize that freedom of expression can no longer be taken for granted.
It would be too frightening for me to consider myself a role model. But I like the idea of not being afraid of letting your imagination rule you, to feel the freedom of expression, to let creativity be your overwhelming drive rather than other things.
I have the freedom to do what I want... bright people to talk to every day.
Even in the darkest regions, people have discovered their right of freedom.
The search for human freedom can never be complete without freedom for women.
If you scratch below the surface and ask what really makes me tick, it's the liberalism of trying to promote freedom and opportunity. Promoting social mobility is one of the keys to that.
I don't watch a huge amount of telly. I read a lot. I'm reading at the moment 'Freedom,' by Jonathan Franzen, a great big brick of a book, and I'm loving it.
I am a passionate believer in freedom of speech. I would not support anything which would impinge on aggressive robust freedom of the British press, but when things go wrong and there has been outright illegality, there should be proper accountability.
I have more freedom when I write fiction, but my memoirs have had a much stronger impact on my readers. Somehow the 'message,' even if I am not even aware that there is one, is conveyed better in this form.
As one gets older one sees many more paths that could be taken. Artists sense within their own work that kind of swelling of possibilities, which may seem a freedom or a confusion.
The arc of American history almost inevitably moves toward freedom. Whether it's Lincoln and the Emancipation Proclamation, the expansion of women's rights or, now, gay rights, I think there is an almost-inevitable march toward greater civil liberties.
I came out of the Soviet Union no longer a communist, because I believed in personal freedom.
As our federal government has grown too large and too powerful, the real loss has been the freedom of people to govern their own lives and participate fully in the American dream.
I loved the feeling of freedom in running, the fresh air, the feeling that the only person I'm competing with is me.
I wasn't a woman who stayed tiny like I thought I would. I definitely gave myself the freedom to eat what I wanted.
I'm privileged, because I have a lot of freedom. I want to use it to make as warm and normal a life as I can for our daughters.
I've sold my soul for freedom. It's lonely but it's sweet.
So why am I facing a recall election? Simple: the big government union bosses from Washington want their money. They don't like the fact that I did something fundamentally pro-worker something that's truly about freedom.
They know the importance of their mission and of America's commitment to combating and defeating terrorism abroad, and they know that they are making a real difference in bringing freedom to a part of the world that has known only tyranny.
They have called Operation Iraqi Freedom a war of choice that isn't part of the real war on terror. Someone should tell that to al Qaeda.
The job of training an Iraqi police force is one of the most important tasks being undertaken in Operation Iraqi Freedom. It is also one of the most difficult.
I really care about this stuff, I care about movies, and you just have to be strong and don't be stupid freedom of choice is a big responsibility, and I'm lucky enough not to have to just take any movie to pay the rent, so there's no need to be greedy.
As a 22-year Army Veteran who served in Operations Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom, and as a Civilian Advisor to the Afghan Army in Operation Enduring Freedom, I understand both the gravity of giving the order, and the challenge of carrying it out.
I love the freedom that the narrative form provides.
Freedom is just Chaos, with better lighting.
Prosperity or egalitarianism - you have to choose. I favor freedom - you never achieve real equality anyway: you simply sacrifice prosperity for an illusion.
As a boy, I believed freedom for America meant freedom for me. There was a time I believed every word spoken.
Recruitment and retention are critical to sustain our Armed Forces with the best men and women willing to stand in the gap and make huge sacrifices to ensure our freedom.
I believe that being an actress or being involved in a movie has to be a life experience, otherwise why go for it? I have to change me, and I have to learn things, and I have to push me and my limits. By acting, I find a freedom inside of a prison in a way.
I believe in trying to get a balance between individual freedom on the one hand and social responsibility on the other.
Private property was the original source of freedom. It still is its main ballpark.
There's a freedom to being young that is harder to come by as time goes on.
I am known for a life spent in the struggle for freedom, and freedom includes the freedom of religion.
I suppose there's a melancholy tone at the back of the American mind, a sense of something lost. And it's the lost world of Thomas Jefferson. It is the lost sense of innocence that we could live with a very minimal state, with a vast sense of space in which to work out freedom.
I needed freedom to really express myself. That's really what Justified is about.
Not caring more about what other people think than what you think. That's freedom.
The freedom of all is essential to my freedom.
Freedom is not an ideal, it is not even a protection, if it means nothing more than freedom to stagnate, to live without dreams, to have no greater aim than a second car and another television set.
To realize that new world we must prefer the values of freedom and equality above all other values - above personal wealth, technical power and nationalism.
One of the things that bothers me most is the growing belief in the country that security is more important than freedom. It ain't.
I believe our flag is more than just cloth and ink. It is a universally recognized symbol that stands for liberty, and freedom. It is the history of our nation, and it's marked by the blood of those who died defending it.
A sense of freedom is something that, happily, comes with age and life experience.
In the last analysis, our only freedom is the freedom to discipline ourselves.
You learn that you either are going to have a police state where you don't have any freedom left, or you're going to build a world that doesn't create terrorists - and that means a whole different way of 'getting along.'
The people who are competing business-wise out there want what other successful labels and artists have. I don't want what they have I want my own path, my own sound, my own identity. Record labels care nothing about identity or artistic freedom, they want good business.
Just as the Security Council was largely irrelevant to the great struggle of the last half of the twentieth century - freedom against Communism - so too it is largely on the sidelines in our contemporary struggles against international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
I never abandoned either forms or freedom. I imagine that most of what could be called free verse is in my first book. I got through that fairly early.
The nice thing about the Bible is it doesn't give you too many facts. Two an a half lines and it tells you the whole story and that leaves you a great deal of freedom to elaborate on how it might have happened.
I feel like my work has been my path to freedom from having grown up in a segregated environment.
The American idea is as promising, imaginative, and full of the unexpected as the land itself. The land represents freedom - the frontier, the ability to make a new future with your own bare hands.
I loved climbing because of the freedom, and having time and space. I remember coming off Everest for the last time, thinking of Dad and wishing that he could have seen what I saw. He would have loved it.
You cannot mistake Bush's clarity of purpose. He believes in a story about freedom and opportunity that makes his followers feel like they aren't just ticking their days down but are part of something larger than themselves.
I don't look so closely at women's fashion, but from the 20th century on, people have had the freedom to express themselves and their individualities, and fashion is one of the most fundamental ways in which they do this, men and women are equally able to express themselves.
The people of the Middle East share the desire for freedom. We have an opportunity - and an obligation - to help them turn this desire into reality.
The U.S. has since the end of World War II had an answer - we stand for free peoples and free markets, we are willing to support and defend them - we will sustain a balance of power that favors freedom.
We are expected to believe that anyone who objects to the Department of Homeland Security or the USA Patriot Act is a terrorist, and that the only way to preserve our freedom is to hand it over to the government for safekeeping.
The freedom of each individual can only be the freedom of all.
Only the freedom of mind can prevent the state from becoming totalitarian and from issuing totalitarian demands.
It is for each of us freely to choose whom we shall serve, and find in that obedience our freedom.
Every dictator is an enemy of freedom, an opponent of law.
Thus, the struggle for peace includes the struggle for freedom and justice for the masses of all countries.
They call them terrorists, I call them freedom fighters.
What does it mean to be an American? While each of us may have our own specific answer to that question, we likely can agree on the basic principles of America: freedom, equal opportunity, and rights accompanied by responsibilities.
Wealth is a tool of freedom, but the pursuit of wealth is the way to slavery.
Being big and famous doesn't get you more freedom, it gets you less.
Your determination, selflessness and courage have brought the freedom struggle towards its fulfilment.
So keep fightin' for freedom and justice, beloveds, but don't you forget to have fun doin' it. Lord, let your laughter ring forth. Be outrageous, ridicule the fraidy-cats, rejoice in all the oddities that freedom can produce.
Freedom of religion is a principle that is central to our Nation's Declaration of Independence. Congress has taken this positive step to protect our freedom to express allegiance to America's flag and the ideals it represents.
I wish we would all remember that being American is not just about the freedom we have it is about those who gave it to us.
If liberty has any meaning it means freedom to improve.
In America it's live by the sword of freedom of expression and be will to die by it as well.
That's free enterprise, friends: freedom to gamble, freedom to lose. And the great thing - the truly democratic thing about it - is that you don't even have to be a player to lose.
Native Americans are the original inhabitants of the land that now constitutes the United States. They have helped develop the fundamental principles of freedom of speech and separation of powers that form the foundation of the United States Government.
It is crucial that members of Congress cast votes that are supportive of the values upon which our nation was founded: equality, freedom, and opportunity for all people.
I've never let producers tell me what to do. Even when I was making television, I always did what I wanted to do, and if I couldn't, I didn't do it. It was a freedom that, these days, young directors starting out don't have.
For us, holding on to religious rules, and following them, and refraining from what's forbidden, and being diligent with our duties, what do we call that? That's what we call freedom.
Private ownership of property is vital to both our freedom and our prosperity.
Liberty, freedom and democracy are very fuzzy words, but human rights is very specific.
Freedom and responsibility aren't interconnected things. They are the same thing.
The communitarians may say you've been enjoying too much individual freedom, and that you must give up some of that for the benefit of the community. But they really mean that they want more power over your life - to force you to subsidize, obey and conform to their choices.
An open society is a society which allows its members the greatest possible degree of freedom in pursuing their interests compatible with the interests of others.
My philosophy is, don't take no for an answer and be willing to sacrifice your entire project for freedom.
Is Walt turning over in his grave? A man named Joe Roth runs Disney right now-he gave me the go-ahead and total freedom to do whatever I wanted to do.
None of us had any idea of how successful Downton was going to be. I thought I was signing up for another period drama that had a slightly modern feel. It had a freedom about it because it was coming out of the head of Julian Fellowes. Anything could happen and generally did.
Every American deserves to live in freedom, to have his or her privacy respected and a chance to go as far as their ability and effort will take them - regardless of race, gender, ethnicity or economic circumstances.
Responsibility and respect of others and their religious beliefs are also part of freedom.
If freedom's best friends cannot unify around a realistic, actionable program of fundamental change, one that attracts and persuades a broad majority of our fellow citizens, big change will not come.
The Vietnamese people deeply love independence, freedom and peace. But in the face of United States aggression they have risen up, united as one man.
Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose.
Real freedom is creative, proactive, and will take me into new territories. I am not free if my freedom is predicated on reacting to my past.
There is only one cure for the evils which newly acquired freedom produces, and that cure is freedom.
I do believe that freedom isn't free - but today the corporate and political right wing is trying to cheapen this truly American value. They've been cynically using the word 'freedom' to rally the American public against its own best interests.
I say let's go back to a truer use of the word 'freedom.' Let's start with President Franklin Roosevelt's Four Freedoms: freedom of speech and expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want and freedom from fear. I would add the freedom to bargain collectively. Those freedoms are under attack today.
People should have freedom in their pilgrimages and tours. They should come and visit historical monuments and sites - let's say the sites around Iran - where they can easily engage in wide- scale contacts with others.
When we are unwilling to draw clear moral lines between free societies and fear societies, when we are unwilling to call the former good and the latter evil, we will not be able to advance the cause of peace because peace cannot be disconnected from freedom.
That freedom that Picasso afforded himself, to be an artist in a huge number of ways, seems to be a huge psychological liberation.
Woman must have her freedom, the fundamental freedom of choosing whether or not she will be a mother and how many children she will have. Regardless of what man's attitude may be, that problem is hers - and before it can be his, it is hers alone.
The progress of freedom depends more upon the maintenance of peace, the spread of commerce, and the diffusion of education, than upon the labors of cabinets and foreign offices.
My parents came from Russia and suddenly they wound up in Boston, Massachusetts, Brookline, Massachusetts and they felt the sun rose and set on Franklin Delano Roosevelt's backside because he meant so much to them. This was freedom. This was something totally different from the Russia they had left.
Revolution! The people howls and cries, Freedom, that's what we're needing! We've needed it for centuries, our arteries are bleeding. The stage is shaking, the audience rock. The whole thing is over by nine o'clock.
Any existence deprived of freedom is a kind of death.
New ideas should confront old ideas. We must refer to the example of Europe. People have fought to make Europe what it is today. Freedom is not something that is served up on a plate.
The higher one climbs on the spiritual ladder, the more they will grant others their own freedom, and give less interference to another's state of consciousness.
Humanism: an exaltation of freedom, but one limited by our need to exercise it as an integral part of nature and society.
I definitely wanted to earn my freedom. But the primary motivation wasn't making money, but making an impact.
At 6 years old, the ice became a place for me to express myself. Because I was so shy off the ice, it became my safe haven, with music and freedom and self-expression. That was my emotional outlet.
The abortion license has not brought freedom and security to women. Rather, it has ushered in a new era of irresponsibility toward women and children, one that now begins before birth.
I suffered evils, but without allowing them to rob me of the freedom to expand.
But I do believe that a woman's truest place is in a home, with a husband and with children, and with large freedom, pecuniary freedom, personal freedom, and the right to vote.
Don't give me any money, don't give me any people, but give freedom, and I'll give you a movie that looks gigantic.
Widespread state control over art and culture has left no room for freedom of expression in the country. For more than 60 years, anyone with a dissenting opinion has been suppressed. Chinese art is merely a product: it avoids any meaningful engagement. There is no larger context. Its only purpose is to charm viewers with its ambiguity.
China has not established the rule of law and if there is a power above the law there is no social justice. Everybody can be subjected to harm. I'm just a citizen: my life is equal in value to any other. But I'm thankful that when I lost my freedom so many people shared feelings and put such touching effort into helping me.
The 'Bird's Nest' National Stadium, which I helped to conceive, is designed to embody the Olympic spirit of 'fair competition.' It tells people that freedom is possible but needs fairness, courage and strength.
Strong, generous, and confident, she has nobly served mankind. Beware how you trifle with your marvellous inheritance, this great land of ordered liberty, for if we stumble and fall freedom and civilization everywhere will go down in ruin.
The freedom now desired by many is not freedom to do and dare but freedom from care and worry.
Patrick Henry did not say, 'Give me absolutely safety or give me death.' America is supposed to be about freedom.
Now, then, in order to understand white supremacy we must dismiss the fallacious notion that white people can give anybody their freedom.
I spent a great deal of time with Che Guevara while I was in Havana. I believe he was far less a mercenary than he was a freedom fighter.
There's a hell of a lot of freedom in this rock and roll circus... it's where all the freaks go - it's the environment for me.
My daughters, your daughters, our daughters deserve safety, protection, and the freedom to make their own choices about their personal lives and their physical selves.
I mean there's enormous pressures to harmonize freedom of speech legislation and transparency legislation around the world - within the E.U., between China and the United States. Which way is it going to go? It's hard to see.
But in the first Gulf war the United Kingdom was not under any threat from Iraq, and is still less so in the second one. Then there is no justification for obstructing freedom of information, particularly as nations have a right to know what their soldiers are being used for.
It is hard to know how many people do, but given that the people are so docile towards the rulers, nowadays, very few Americans show the passion for freedom that our forefathers had.
The increased presence of Muslims in Italy and in Europe is directly proportional to our loss of freedom.
Freedom means the freedom to behave coarsely, basely, foolishly.
Government has the role of suiting people for freedom. People aren't made for freedom spontaneously. There's sort of a 19-year race between when people are born and when they become adults. And government has a role in making them, at the end of 19 years, suited to be upright, trustworthy repositories of popular sovereignty.
Freedom is an internal achievement rather than an external adjustment.
I started skydiving because I loved the idea of freedom.
We are all different. Yet we are all God's children. We are all united behind this country and the common cause of freedom, justice, fairness, and equality. That is what unites us.
President Bush in his inaugural address talked about bringing freedom to countries that don't have it. He didn't specify how.
To deny the freedom of the will is to make morality impossible.
All Americans and freedom-loving people around the world owe President Reagan our deepest gratitude for his strong, principled leadership that ended the Cold War and brought freedom to millions of people.
There's also a sense of freedom. I was so obsessed by this problem that I was thinking about if all the time - when I woke up in the morning, when I went to sleep at night, and that went on for eight years.
One of the unsung freedoms that go with a free press is the freedom not to read it.
Value your freedom or you will lose it, teaches history. 'Don't bother us with politics', respond those who don't want to learn.
Free software is software that respects your freedom and the social solidarity of your community. So it's free as in freedom.
In the free/libre software movement, we develop software that respects users' freedom, so we and you can escape from software that doesn't.
If ebooks mean that readers' freedom must either increase or decrease, we must demand the increase.
With paper printed books, you have certain freedoms. You can acquire the book anonymously by paying cash, which is the way I always buy books. I never use a credit card. I don't identify to any database when I buy books. Amazon takes away that freedom.
When I launched the development of the GNU system, I explicitly said the purpose of developing this system is so we can use our computers and have freedom, thus if you use some other free system instead but you have freedom, then it's a success. It's not popularity for our code but it's success for our goal.
I believe dreams represent the purest form of fantasy we unleash through our subconscious. They represent the truest freedom we can experience. Totally unrepressed and totally creative.
I would say that the war correspondent gets more drinks, more girls, better pay, and greater freedom than the soldier, but at this stage of the game, having the freedom to choose his spot and being allowed to be a coward and not be executed for it is his torture.
The freedom of thought is a sacred right of every individual man, and diversity will continue to increase with the progress, refinement, and differentiation of the human intellect.
That's part of American greatness, is discrimination. Yes, sir. Inequality, I think, breeds freedom and gives a man opportunity.
Carry out the republican principle of universal suffrage, or strike it from your banners and substitute 'Freedom and Power to one half of society, and Submission and Slavery to the other.'
Freedom is always the freedom of dissenters.
Freedom only for the members of the government, only for the members of the Party - though they are quite numerous - is no freedom at all.
All my life, Americans have been accustomed to thinking of theirs as 'the richest, freest' country in the world. By most measurements, it was long a contender for that honor, and - among the larger countries, if equal weight were given to wealth and indices of freedom - probably did deserve to be so described.
When we, through our educational culture, through the media, through the entertainment culture, give our children the impression that human beings cannot control their passions, we are telling them, in effect, that human beings cannot be trusted with freedom.
With courage and character, American soldiers continue to put themselves on the line to defend our freedom, and so many have paid the ultimate sacrifice.
They were singing in French, but the melody was freedom and any American could understand that.
Our work is a scream of freedom.
With one man, there was a freedom and liberation. That was with Michael Hutchence, my partner in life.
Freedom of expression is the matrix, the indispensable condition, of nearly every other form of freedom.
American movies and music deliver themes of freedom, innocence, and power that appeal to others - partly because America itself was put together out of a multiplicity of national traditions.
Our Founders warned against this. They said don't... that your liberty is only as secure as the people are. Because once they, um, get the ability to vote themselves entitlements from the largesse of the government, liberty is done freedom is over with. We were warned. We are there.
Judgment traps you within the limitations of your comparisons. It inhibits freedom.
Men like me, who merely wish to establish political freedom, will in such circumstances lose all their influence, and others will get influence who may become dangerous to all established interests whatsoever.
I know that throughout their history, the people of the United States defended their freedom, their liberty, their justice, and their rights - if need be - with their lives. I think their courage is so admirable.
The Law of God reaches into every area of life, and it brings about incredible blessing and incredible freedom.
I stand for limited government, fiscal responsibility, personal freedom, personal responsibility, so the Republican Party will support me.
But it required a disastrous, internecine war to bring this question of human freedom to a crisis, and the process of striking the shackles from the slave was accomplished in a single hour.
If we want to talk about freedom, we must mean freedom for others as well as ourselves, and we must mean freedom for everyone inside our frontiers as well as outside.
Having grown up in Bombay, from the day you're born, you have absolute freedom to choose who you want to be.
It could be my British need for discipline that makes me admire the American appetite for freedom and passion.
Ultimately we know deeply that the other side of every fear is freedom.
That feeling of freedom, open highways of possibilities, has kind of been lost to materialism and marketing.
Life is a very orderly thing, but in fiction there is a huge liberation and freedom. I can do what I like. There's nothing that says I can't write a page of full stops. There is no 'should' involved, although you wouldn't know that from literary reviews and critics.
Republican values - strong families, faith, personal responsibility and freedom, among others - are not unique to specific subsets of the electorate. They are universal values, and it is Republicans' job to remind Americans of that fact.
I think there is a heritage which I'm proud of, which is a fight for democracy, a fight for social justice, a fight for freedom. My grandfather went to jail or exile six times in his life, fighting for his principles for democracy, or for his country. And my father twice.
The legal difference between the sit-ins and the Freedom Riders was significant.
I have always been a firm believer in the longstanding American principle of having the right to bear arms and I will remain committed to see that this freedom is not infringed upon, revoked, or limited in any way.
Eventually I want to be a full-time mother who works occasionally - and being an actor you have that freedom.
Many have left their families to defend our freedom. We salute their bravery we express our appreciation and support to their families. And we pray for their safe return.
The old Romans all wished to have a king over them because they had not yet tasted the sweetness of freedom.
We believe that salvation is to be found in wholesome work in a beloved land. Work will provide our people with the bread of tomorrow, and moreover, with the honor of the tomorrow, the freedom of the tomorrow.
Time misspent in youth is sometimes all the freedom one ever has.
When I was younger, I was listening to a lot of Armenian music, you know, revolutionary music about freedom and protest. In the 70s I was listening to soul and the Bee Gees and ABBA, and funk.
The thing is this: You got to have fun while you're fightin' for freedom, 'cause you don't always win.
I don't think that there is absolute freedom of the press. We operate under laws - against libel, for instance. The idea that there is some absolute press freedom is kind of a myth.
Many a time freedom has been rolled back - and always for the same sorry reason: fear.
Havin' fun while freedom fightin' must be one of those lunatic Texas traits we get from the water - which is known to have lithium in it - because it goes all the way back to Sam Houston, surely the most lovable, the most human, and the funniest of all the great men this country has ever produced.
The freedom to connect to the world anywhere at anytime brings with it the threat of unscrupulous predators and criminals who mask their activities with the anonymity the Internet provides to its users.
Yoga is a way to freedom. By its constant practice, we can free ourselves from fear, anguish and loneliness.
There is something akin to freedom in having a lover who has no control over you, except that which he gains by kindness and attachment.
Latinos have fought in all of America's wars, beginning with the Revolutionary War. Many Latinos are fighting and dying for our country today in Iraq, just as several of their ancestors fought for freedom in Mexico over a century ago.
History is full of examples of people who clamp down after they began to enjoy too much freedom. Freedom can lead to instability, anarchy, and confusion. So there can be a moral counter-revolution.
With Napster and the sharing of music, of course, there are going to be people who exploit it. Greed has no end. But there's a lot of good that could happen. We shouldn't let the economic concerns of the major labels infringe on our freedom to share music.
I do have the freedom to choose what I want to do and I'll continue to do that.
Jazz is about freedom within discipline. Usually a dictatorship like in Russia and Germany will prevent jazz from being played because it just seemed to represent freedom, democracy and the United States.
Many people don't understand how disciplined you have to be to play jazz... And that is really the idea of democracy - freedom within the Constitution or discipline. You don't just get out there and do anything you want.
Jazz stands for freedom. It's supposed to be the voice of freedom: Get out there and improvise, and take chances, and don't be a perfectionist - leave that to the classical musicians.
I was 37 when my father died-and I no longer had any freedom of choice over what I would do with the rest of my life.
This enemy of peace in the world today is unlike any we have seen in the past, and our military is learning from, and building on, previous successes while carrying peace and freedom into the future.
I have just enough people paying attention that I have the freedom to be in charge. And I have a great record company - Nonesuch understands what I'm about.
The United States is a giant island of freedom, achievement, wealth and prosperity in a world hostile to our values.
Maybe a part of me recognized how right the improvising spirit of jazz is. Not the sounds, but the freedom to work with musicians who work that way. It felt very natural to me, but I think there's a way to do it without it being a jazz record.
That happens every time I get behind a guitar, regardless of what I'm saying, 'cause music is freedom and being free is the closest I've ever felt to being spiritual.
You have an absolute freedom in Mexican writing today in which you don't necessarily have to deal with the Mexican identity. You know why? Because we have an identity... We know who we are. We know what it means to be a Mexican.
For science must breathe the oxygen of freedom.
It's good that the first half of the speech emphasized freedom, because George W. Bush has been the global champion for freedom. As he said, if we don't fight tyranny it will not leave us alone in peace.
A culture without property, or in which creators can't get paid, is anarchy, not freedom.
The attitude is we live and let live. This is actually an amazing change in values in a rather short time and it's an example of freedom from religion.
I don't have anything to prove anymore. I don't have a record deal, no one has any expectations, I'm in a position of freedom. I don't need anyone's approval.
Working with David Cronenberg or Darren Aronofsky or even Steven Soderbergh isn't really like a typical Hollywood movie. These are true artists, and have a certain amount of freedom when they work, and they're more like independent filmmakers making their way through big studios.
Your life is the sum result of all the choices you make, both consciously and unconsciously. If you can control the process of choosing, you can take control of all aspects of your life. You can find the freedom that comes from being in charge of yourself.
I have always that there ought to be some kind of mandatory national service, not necessarily in the military but to show everybody that freedom isn't free, that everybody has an obligation to the nation as a community.
It is not natural or inevitable that half the world goes hungry that the freedom of markets trumps protection of the planet or that citizens' rights come second to those of corporations.
In times such as these, people should recognize that evil knows no borders, knows no limits and knows no compassion. Those around the globe that value freedom must continue to persevere even in the darkest of times.
To her audience, Janis Joplin has remained a symbol, artifact and reminder of late Sixties youth culture. Her popularity never derived from her musical ability, but from her capacity to link her fantasies of freedom and immortality with ours.
The enemies of freedom will not prevail.
In short, is not liberty the freedom of every person to make full use of his faculties, so long as he does not harm other persons while doing so?
How can you be conservative and justify wiretapping people without a warrant? We're supposed to be the party of personal freedom and civil liberties.
Another hero was Tom Swift, in the books. What he stood for, the freedom, the scientific knowledge and being and engineer gave him the ability to invent solutions to problems. He's always been a hero to me. I buy old Tom Swift books now and read them to my own children.
Real change isn't found in some new way to think about yourself, but in freedom from the need to think about yourself at all.
It's great to have the freedom to enjoy your work and not feel like you're leaving your other life behind.
I always wanted to make a children's album because you have the freedom to explore so many wonderful topics and sounds.
The first of all commodities to be exchanged is labour, and the freedom of man consists only in the exercise of the right to determine for himself in what manner his labour shall be employed, and how he will dispose of its products.
You know, you don't retreat in the defense of freedom. You don't retreat in the defense of moral government and limited government. You don't retreat because people are going to defend bad things.
If governments let themselves be fully bound by the decisions of their parliaments without protecting their own freedom to act, a breakup of Europe would be a more probable outcome than deeper integration.
It the British System is the most gigantic system of slavery the world has yet seen, and therefore it is that freedom gradually disappears from every country over which England is enabled to obtain control.
Yes, we have the freedom to do what we please, but it only works because we don't do everything we might please - we should exercise some degree of personal, and corporate, responsibility.
Freedom of expression comes with responsibilities, especially when it comes with serious implications for peace.
My name became known because I was, one might say accidentally the target of state repression and because so many people throughout the country and other parts of the world organized around the demand for my freedom.
Creative freedom is an imperative for me, but it doesn't really exist in a Hollywood game.
America has never seen itself as a national state like all others, but rather as an experiment in human freedom and democracy.
I want to have the freedom to do whatever I want.
Money buys many things... The best of which is freedom.
You, the foreign media, have been the companion of my people in its long and painful journey to freedom.
You have spent many lives and much treasure to bring freedom to many lands that were reluctant to receive it. And here you have a people who won it by themselves and need only the help to preserve it.
My father described this tall lady who stands in the middle of the New York harbor, holding high a torch to welcome people seeking freedom in America. I instantly fell in love.
Wherever on this planet ideals of personal freedom and dignity apply, there you will find the cultural inheritance of England.
Not to mention the fact that of course terrorists hate freedom. I think they do hate. But believe me, I don't think they sit there abstractly hating freedom.
People ask 'How does doing a film compare to doing an ad?' Well, when you're doing a commercial you don't have to sell tickets. You have a captured audience. Which is actually completely rare and great it gives you a lot of freedom. When you make a film, you have to do advertisements for the film.
I was inspired to write this book by those who are sceptical of the power of freedom to change the world.
The three main sources of scepticism are first, that not every people desires freedom second, that democracy in certain parts of the world would be dangerous and third, that there is little the world's democracies can do to advance freedom outside their countries.
By helping readers understand these mechanics, I hope they will appreciate why freedom is for everyone, why it is essential for our security and why the free world plays a critically important role in advancing democracy around the globe.
Believe me, the drug of freedom is universally potent.
I am optimistic that peace can be achieved in the region because I believe that every society on earth can be free and that if freedom comes to the Middle East, there can be peace.
I take life as it happens. And I give myself a lot of freedom.
I used to think that if I had success I would have freedom. But I have less freedom now than I've ever had. And what gives me satisfaction is not the jewelry and not the cars. What gives me satisfaction is doing things for others, like children.
When I went off to the army when I was 17 years old, I believed in America and the rights of freedom. But today I believe my government is lying to the American people and that my president, George Bush, is a criminal.
Without freedom of the press, there can be no representative government.
I have a fantastic relationship with money. I use it to buy my freedom.
Three simple words - freedom, justice and honesty. These sum up what the Liberal Democrats stand for.
Money equals freedom.
A man of strength and wisdom, John Paul became an inspiration to generations of both Catholics and non-Catholics throughout the world by encouraging freedom, promoting peace and respecting all faiths.
As a child I was given the freedom to explore my passion for acting, but I also grew up in a home where there were a lot of rules. I didn't have 'yes' parents.
If a jerk burns the flag, America is not threatened, democracy is not under siege, freedom is not at risk.
I know what you're going to say! 'They are men, and men should be free.' A free man is dangerous to himself and everyone else. Freedom should be left to those who can put it to good use.
Freedom is a muscle... you have to exercise it.
People want the freedom. They want to be able to shop. If you don't like the shop trading hours and you're a shop owner, you don't have to open.
A trait which differentiated New York from European cities was the incredible freedom and ease in which life, including sexual life, could be carried on, on many levels.
School gives you the freedom to explore different philosophies, religions, aspects of yourself, and subjects.
The humor is essentially dark for a cartoon and sophisticated. But at the same time, being a cartoon gives the writers more freedom than in a normal sitcom. It always pushes the line that, despite human failings, the Simpsons are really decent people.
We need international support so that our people live a life of normality, of dignity, of liberty and freedom. I hope that our cry for freedom may be heard.
In terms of filming, yes, it really does feel over now. There's a real sense of freedom now. It's a good time to finish, I think. As much as I'm going to miss it I'm ready to move on and do different things.
Our soldiers have nobly fought to protect freedom since our country's birth, and have fought to protect those that could not protect themselves, even in foreign lands when called upon.
To stop terrorists before the strike, we must do three things: deny them entry into the country, curtail their freedom of action inside the country, and deprive them of material and moral support from within the country.
I think that we could be more careful about what we're saying to young women in terms of their expectations. It's unrealistic to expect people to always be in designer clothes. Girls growing up deserve more freedom in how they look and how they feel about how they look.
I was the youngest child and got a lot more freedom than my brother and sister. I used to wander, doing my own thing under the radar, but I didn't get in bad, bad trouble.
I grew up under Communism so we could only learn Russian, and then when Communism fell in 1989 we could learn a few more things and have the freedom to travel and the freedom of speech - and the freedom of dreaming, really.
Now we understand much more clearly. why people from all over the world want to come to New York and to America. It's called freedom.
The balance between freedom and security is a delicate one.
Freedom - an occupied space which must be reoccupied every day.
Spirit borrows from matter the perceptions on which it feeds and restores them to matter in the form of movements which it has stamped with its own freedom.
We live in a land like no other - a land of freedom and opportunity unparalleled on the face of the globe.
We've got to understand that the whole nature of the way American democracy guards its freedom has been changed.
When public access to voting is impaired or when public confidence in voting is diluted, democracy suffers and our freedom is less secure.
If technology has finally caught up with individual liberty, why would anyone who loves freedom want to rethink that?
I am somebody who... - I'm not saying I'm perfect, but I need that freedom, that ability to make mistakes out there. Because there's a fine line between making a mistake or being brilliant.
I am not an anti to anything which will bring freedom to my class.
We are a nation in which freedom is alive in the squares and streets, in the daily work of the communications media, in the open relationship between the governing and the governed.
If you ask me to summarise our mission, I would put it this way: We were a military regime that sought to lay the foundations for freedom and liberty in a complex society.
Most importantly, nothing has happened to change my conviction that freedom and the love of liberty remain the essential defining attributes of our national character as a people.
The challenge as we saw in the Nigerian project was to restructure the economy decisively in the direction of a modern free market as an appropriate environment for cultivation of freedom and democracy and the natural emergence of a new social order.
While it's really hard to do, at the same time, I'm escaping my body, which I really want to do. I'm living someone else's life. I get very intensely into the story, into the interviews and the research. I'm experiencing things along with my subjects. I have a freedom I don't have in my physical life.
I've never had anything but the freedom to do what I wanted just as long as it made me happy.
Fulfill - you can far more than fulfill - the brightest anticipations of those who, in the name of human freedom, and in the face of threats that have ripened into terrible realities since, fought that battle which placed you where you now stand.
The wretch who lives without freedom feels like dressing in the mud from the streets Those who have you, o Liberty, do not know. you. Those who do not have you should not speak of you, but win you.
I like movies that pop, that have a little bit of candy on, that freedom to have a little bit of extra fun, but are rooted in real behaviour. Rooted in cause and effect, never violating reality.
The media bring our wars home, but only rarely have they been able to do it in complete freedom.
You make a movie for 9k for the freedom it allows you.
The men and women who serve in our military have won for us every hour we live in freedom, sometimes at the expense of the very hours of the lifetimes they had hoped to live.
Freedom to differ is not limited to things that do not matter mush. That would be a mere shadow of freedom. The test of its substance is the right to differ as to things that touch the heart of the existing order.
There is a bright spot or two for the Spaniards. French toast has become freedom toast on the Air Force One breakfast menu, but the Spanish omelet is still a Spanish omelet.
When I was in jail, I was a lot of people's favorite person. I practically ran the jail. I had more freedom than the police.
A growing number of young women who have the freedom to decide have decided that career can wait, and the delicious early years of their children's lives can't.
People ask me if I ever thought of writing a children's book. I say, 'If I had a serious brain injury I might well write a children's book', but otherwise the idea of being conscious of who you're directing the story to is anathema to me, because, in my view, fiction is freedom and any restraints on that are intolerable.
To me, music has to be about freedom. It's the most important thing in my life.
The very first things that I did, even in theater, were bad guys. They are meaty roles for the most part. With the bad guy you have more freedom to experiment and go further out than with a good guy.
Without economic development, any potential for political openness and freedom will be questionable.
Our constitutional liberties shall not be sacrificed in our search for greater security, for that is what our enemies and all enemies of freedom and democracy hope to achieve.
The main thing I believe in is freedom.
We must guard against the overreaching hand of big government trying to take away our freedom. And we must always protect the environment in a manner consistent with our values.
If I am outspoken of the dangers of intemperance to members of our armed forces, it is because we are all especially concerned for the welfare of those who are risking their lives in the cause of freedom.
What is our freedom fight about? Is it about the liberation of children or just having sex with them?
Although we have, in theory, abolished human slavery, recognized women's rights, and stopped child labor, we continue to enslave other species who, if we simply pay attention, show quite clearly that they experience parental love, pain, and the desire for freedom, just as we do.
Men must stop being jealous of their power and generously allow freedom and responsibility to others. The reward is harmonious families and society.
A successful man is one who makes more money than his wife can spend. A successful woman is one who can find such a man.
I believe that if life gives you lemons, you should make lemonade... And try to find somebody whose life has given them vodka, and have a party.
A word to the wise ain't necessary - it's the stupid ones that need the advice.
Behind every great man is a woman rolling her eyes.
Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive.
I feel sorry for people who don't drink. When they wake up in the morning, that's as good as they're going to feel all day.
When you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an hour. That's relativity.
A day without sunshine is like, you know, night.
Go to Heaven for the climate, Hell for the company.
Wine is constant proof that God loves us and loves to see us happy.
A government that robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.
As a child my family's menu consisted of two choices: take it or leave it.
Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please.
Between two evils, I always pick the one I never tried before.
My grandmother started walking five miles a day when she was sixty. She's ninety-seven now, and we don't know where the hell she is.
People who think they know everything are a great annoyance to those of us who do.
My fake plants died because I did not pretend to water them.
I have six locks on my door all in a row. When I go out, I lock every other one. I figure no matter how long somebody stands there picking the locks, they are always locking three.
Housework can't kill you, but why take a chance?
If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.
Any girl can be glamorous. All you have to do is stand still and look stupid.
I always wanted to be somebody, but now I realize I should have been more specific.
A lot of people are afraid of heights. Not me, I'm afraid of widths.
A two-year-old is kind of like having a blender, but you don't have a top for it.
Always end the name of your child with a vowel, so that when you yell the name will carry.
Weather forecast for tonight: dark.
A woman's mind is cleaner than a man's: She changes it more often.
I found there was only one way to look thin: hang out with fat people.
All right everyone, line up alphabetically according to your height.
Recession is when a neighbor loses his job. Depression is when you lose yours.
I cook with wine, sometimes I even add it to the food.
I'm an idealist. I don't know where I'm going, but I'm on my way.
Always remember that you are absolutely unique. Just like everyone else.
All generalizations are false, including this one.
The only time a woman really succeeds in changing a man is when he is a baby.
I like long walks, especially when they are taken by people who annoy me.
It takes considerable knowledge just to realize the extent of your own ignorance.
Everybody knows how to raise children, except the people who have them.
My most brilliant achievement was my ability to be able to persuade my wife to marry me.
By all means let's be open-minded, but not so open-minded that our brains drop out.
A friend doesn't go on a diet because you are fat.
Do not worry about avoiding temptation. As you grow older it will avoid you.
A stockbroker urged me to buy a stock that would triple its value every year. I told him, 'At my age, I don't even buy green bananas.'
Frisbeetarianism is the belief that when you die, your soul goes up on the roof and gets stuck.
I used to be Snow White, but I drifted.
You can lead a man to Congress, but you can't make him think.
I love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by.
A child of five would understand this. Send someone to fetch a child of five.
A nickel ain't worth a dime anymore.
I am not a member of any organized political party. I am a Democrat.
I am not afraid of death, I just don't want to be there when it happens.
By trying we can easily endure adversity. Another man's, I mean.
Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close-knit family in another city.
I refuse to join any club that would have me as a member.
Any kid will run any errand for you, if you ask at bedtime.
Anyone who says he can see through women is missing a lot.
I intend to live forever. So far, so good.
If two wrongs don't make a right, try three.
A waffle is like a pancake with a syrup trap.
Before I refuse to take your questions, I have an opening statement.
If you're going to do something tonight that you'll be sorry for tomorrow morning, sleep late.
Be thankful we're not getting all the government we're paying for.
There are only three things women need in life: food, water, and compliments.
I haven't spoken to my wife in years. I didn't want to interrupt her.
A man doesn't know what he knows until he knows what he doesn't know.
Life is hard. After all, it kills you.
All people are born alike - except Republicans and Democrats.
Electricity is really just organized lightning.
One picture is worth 1,000 denials.
I saw a woman wearing a sweatshirt with Guess on it. I said, Thyroid problem?
I knew I was an unwanted baby when I saw that my bath toys were a toaster and a radio.
I'm sorry, if you were right, I'd agree with you.
A pessimist is a person who has had to listen to too many optimists.
A committee is a group that keeps minutes and loses hours.
My definition of an intellectual is someone who can listen to the William Tell Overture without thinking of the Lone Ranger.
I distrust camels, and anyone else who can go a week without a drink.
Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm schizophrenic, and so am I.
Older people shouldn't eat health food, they need all the preservatives they can get.
Procrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday.
There cannot be a crisis next week. My schedule is already full.
Guilt: the gift that keeps on giving.
Never have more children than you have car windows.
I would never die for my beliefs because I might be wrong.
Why do they call it rush hour when nothing moves?
Money won't buy happiness, but it will pay the salaries of a large research staff to study the problem.
I'm writing a book. I've got the page numbers done.
A vegetarian is a person who won't eat anything that can have children.
I never said most of the things I said.
I never drink water because of the disgusting things that fish do in it.
Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap-on-a-rope.
I buy expensive suits. They just look cheap on me.
I drank some boiling water because I wanted to whistle.
What's another word for Thesaurus?
In comic strips, the person on the left always speaks first.
How many people here have telekenetic powers? Raise my hand.
Tragedy is when I cut my finger. Comedy is when you fall into an open sewer and die.
I love Mickey Mouse more than any woman I have ever known.
I did not have three thousand pairs of shoes, I had one thousand and sixty.
Best way to get rid of kitchen odors: Eat out.
I have a new philosophy. I'm only going to dread one day at a time.
There are lots of people who mistake their imagination for their memory.
Cleanliness becomes more important when godliness is unlikely.
I used to jog but the ice cubes kept falling out of my glass.
They say marriages are made in Heaven. But so is thunder and lightning.
He taught me housekeeping when I divorce I keep the house.
I bought some batteries, but they weren't included.
I have never been hurt by what I have not said.
Cross country skiing is great if you live in a small country.
I no doubt deserved my enemies, but I don't believe I deserved my friends.
If love is the answer, could you please rephrase the question?
The world is full of magical things patiently waiting for our wits to grow sharper.
I wear a necklace, cause I wanna know when I'm upside down.
It is even harder for the average ape to believe that he has descended from man.
I like children - fried.
It's amazing that the amount of news that happens in the world every day always just exactly fits the newspaper.
I'm for whatever gets you through the night.
Because of their size, parents may be difficult to discipline properly.
I love to go to Washington - if only to be near my money.
I never expected to see the day when girls would get sunburned in the places they now do.
O Lord, help me to be pure, but not yet.
I'm not a real movie star. I've still got the same wife I started out with twenty-eight years ago.
A sure cure for seasickness is to sit under a tree.
I'm undaunted in my quest to amuse myself by constantly changing my hair.
Nobody ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American public.
Age is something that doesn't matter, unless you are a cheese.
Every man's dream is to be able to sink into the arms of a woman without also falling into her hands.
The only time I ever enjoyed ironing was the day I accidentally got gin in the steam iron.
My Father had a profound influence on me. He was a lunatic.
Food, love, career, and mothers, the four major guilt groups.
A lot of baby boomers are baby bongers.
When we talk to God, we're praying. When God talks to us, we're schizophrenic.
The superfluous, a very necessary thing.
The next time you have a thought... let it go.
What contemptible scoundrel has stolen the cork to my lunch?
It's simple, if it jiggles, it's fat.
When I eventually met Mr. Right I had no idea that his first name was Always.
Fashions have done more harm than revolutions.
If you want to be thought a liar, always tell the truth.
It is a scientific fact that your body will not absorb cholesterol if you take it from another person's plate.
I looked up my family tree and found out I was the sap.
This shirt is dry clean only. Which means... it's dirty.
Originality is the fine art of remembering what you hear but forgetting where you heard it.
All men are equal before fish.
I wanna make a jigsaw puzzle that's 40,000 pieces. And when you finish it, it says 'go outside.'
I hate housework! You make the beds, you do the dishes and six months later you have to start all over again.
California is a fine place to live - if you happen to be an orange.
Every time I see an adult on a bicycle, I no longer despair for the future of the human race.
If God wanted us to bend over he'd put diamonds on the floor.
Marriage is a wonderful institution, but who would want to live in an institution?
My life needs editing.
Men are only as loyal as their options.
My one regret in life is that I am not someone else.
I don't need you to remind me of my age. I have a bladder to do that for me.
When I was a boy the Dead Sea was only sick.
I have a love interest in every one of my films: a gun.
You're only as good as your last haircut.
Be obscure clearly.
Food is an important part of a balanced diet.
I have tried to know absolutely nothing about a great many things, and I have succeeded fairly well.
Do not let a flattering woman coax and wheedle you and deceive you she is after your barn.
There's no better feeling in the world than a warm pizza box on your lap.
People always ask me, 'Were you funny as a child?' Well, no, I was an accountant.
If I had to live my life again, I'd make the same mistakes, only sooner.
Everything that used to be a sin is now a disease.
All the candy corn that was ever made was made in 1911.
Men don't care what's on TV. They only care what else is on TV.
Drawing on my fine command of the English language, I said nothing.
If truth is beauty, how come no one has their hair done in the library?
You see much more of your children once they leave home.
One man's folly is another man's wife.
Never raise your hand to your children - it leaves your midsection unprotected.
I'd luv to kiss ya, but I just washed my hair.
I failed to make the chess team because of my height.
If it weren't for Philo T. Farnsworth, inventor of television, we'd still be eating frozen radio dinners.
If I want to knock a story off the front page, I just change my hairstyle.
TV is chewing gum for the eyes.
I was the kid next door's imaginary friend.
Don't forget Mother's Day. Or as they call it in Beverly Hills, Dad's Third Wife Day.
Boy, those French: they have a different word for everything!
I've always wanted to go to Switzerland to see what the army does with those wee red knives.
Experience is what you have after you've forgotten her name.
If at first you don't succeed, blame your parents.
I like a woman with a head on her shoulders. I hate necks.
Until you walk a mile in another man's moccasins you can't imagine the smell.
Never fight an inanimate object.
Smoking kills. If you're killed, you've lost a very important part of your life.
I don't believe in the after life, although I am bringing a change of underwear.
I think they should have a Barbie with a buzz cut.
If my films make one more person miserable, I'll feel I have done my job.
We'll love you just the way you are if you're perfect.
Brought up to respect the conventions, love had to end in marriage. I'm afraid it did.
I don't think anyone should write their autobiography until after they're dead.
Parents are the last people on earth who ought to have children.
Men are liars. We'll lie about lying if we have to. I'm an algebra liar. I figure two good lies make a positive.
A James Cagney love scene is one where he lets the other guy live.
Everything in life is somewhere else, and you get there in a car.
If you can't tell a spoon from a ladle, then you're fat!
If it's the Psychic Network why do they need a phone number?
The reason there are two senators for each state is so that one can be the designated driver.
Moderation is a virtue only in those who are thought to have an alternative.
I was so naive as a kid I used to sneak behind the barn and do nothing.
That's my only goal. Surround myself with funny people, and make sure everyone has a good time and works hard.
The IRS! They're like the Mafia, they can take anything they want!
Well, if I called the wrong number, why did you answer the phone?
If at first you don't succeed... so much for skydiving.
The first time I sang in the church choir two hundred people changed their religion.
Polite conversation is rarely either.
If you have a secret, people will sit a little bit closer.
If at first you don't succeed, find out if the loser gets anything.
As I get older, I just prefer to knit.
If you live to be one hundred, you've got it made. Very few people die past that age.
I was a vegetarian until I started leaning toward the sunlight.
Every man has his follies - and often they are the most interesting thing he has got.
Never floss with a stranger.
I was sleeping the other night, alone, thanks to the exterminator.
The digital camera is a great invention because it allows us to reminisce. Instantly.
If God wanted us to fly, He would have given us tickets.
Flattery is like cologne water, to be smelt, not swallowed.
Mail your packages early so the post office can lose them in time for Christmas.
Television has changed the American child from an irresistable force to an immovable object.
To attract men, I wear a perfume called 'New Car Interior.'
Have enough sense to know, ahead of time, when your skills will not extend to wallpapering.
I've never been married, but I tell people I'm divorced so they won't think something's wrong with me.
I have yet to hear a man ask for advice on how to combine marriage and a career.
I like marriage. The idea.
I spent a year in that town, one Sunday.
My theory is that all of Scottish cuisine is based on a dare.
God did not intend religion to be an exercise club.
My uncle Sammy was an angry man. He had printed on his tombstone: What are you looking at?
I used to sell furniture for a living. The trouble was, it was my own.
Retirement at sixty-five is ridiculous. When I was sixty-five I still had pimples.
The four building blocks of the universe are fire, water, gravel and vinyl.
In Hollywood a marriage is a success if it outlasts milk.
Television has brought back murder into the home - where it belongs.
Communism is like one big phone company.
There's nothing wrong with being shallow as long as you're insightful about it.
I don't have to look up my family tree, because I know that I'm the sap.
There's no such thing as soy milk. It's soy juice.
Who picks your clothes - Stevie Wonder?
There's a great power in words, if you don't hitch too many of them together.
My father would take me to the playground, and put me on mood swings.
When I go to a bar, I don't go looking for a girl who knows the capital of Maine.
I consider that a man's brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose.
I don't have a bank account because I don't know my mother's maiden name.
Defy your own group. Rebel against yourself.
I don't deserve this award, but I have arthritis and I don't deserve that either.
I rant, therefore I am.
It is easy for me to love myself, but for ladies to do it is another question altogether.
My wife has a slight impediment in her speech. Every now and then she stops to breathe.
When you're in love it's the most glorious two and a half days of your life.
When the sun comes up, I have morals again.
Tell us your phobias and we will tell you what you are afraid of.
I grew up in Europe, where the history comes from.
Progress was all right. Only it went on too long.
Our national flower is the concrete cloverleaf.
The day I made that statement, about the inventing the internet, I was tired because I'd been up all night inventing the Camcorder.
Never put a sock in a toaster.
I'm going to marry a Jewish woman because I like the idea of getting up Sunday morning and going to the deli.
We need two kinds of acquaintances, one to complain to, while to the others we boast.
If I have to lay an egg for my country, I'll do it.
I may be a living legend, but that sure don't help when I've got to change a flat tire.
I wish I had the nerve not to tip.
How long was I in the army? Five foot eleven.
The way taxes are, you might as well marry for love.
I recorded my hair this morning, tonight I'm watching the highlights.
I was born in very sorry circumstances. Both of my parents were very sorry.
People say that life is the thing, but I prefer reading.
I can speak Esperanto like a native.
Ever notice that Soup for One is eight aisles away from Party Mix?
Every cloud has its silver lining but it is sometimes a little difficult to get it to the mint.
It all started when my dog began getting free roll over minutes.
Miami Beach is where neon goes to die.
Why don't you get out of that wet coat and into a dry martini?
The best measure of a man's honesty isn't his income tax return. It's the zero adjust on his bathroom scale.
I have just returned from Boston. It is the only thing to do if you find yourself up there.
I cannot sing, dance or act what else would I be but a talk show host.
I think serial monogamy says it all.
I quit therapy because my analyst was trying to help me behind my back.
I sang in the choir for years, even though my family belonged to another church.
The one thing you shouldn't do is try to tell a cab driver how to get somewhere.
My mother was against me being an actress - until I introduced her to Frank Sinatra.
All my children inherited perfect pitch.
I'm thankful for the three ounce Ziploc bag, so that I have somewhere to put my savings.
Whoever is my relative, I will not be nice to them.
I'm a misplaced American, but don't know where I was misplaced.
I would talk in iambic pentameter if it were easier.
Parrots make great pets. They have more personality than goldfish.
If man knew how women pass the time when they are alone, they'd never marry.
Here in Hollywood you can actually get a marriage license printed on an Etch-A-Sketch.
I have a very low level of recognition, which is fine by me.
I'm kidding about having only a few dollars. I might have a few dollars more.
I'd never been in play long enough for the flowers to die in the dressing room.
I'm the only man in the world with a marriage licence made out to whom it may concern.
Someone told me that when they go to Vermont, they feel like they're home. I'm that way at Saks.
Trust is hard to come by. That's why my circle is small and tight. I'm kind of funny about making new friends.
I was asked to act when I couldn't act. I was asked to sing 'Funny Face' when I couldn't sing, and dance with Fred Astaire when I couldn't dance - and do all kinds of things I wasn't prepared for. Then I tried like mad to cope with it.
There is hope for the future because God has a sense of humor and we are funny to God.
Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.
From there to here, and here to there, funny things are everywhere.
It's a funny thing that when a man hasn't anything on earth to worry about, he goes off and gets married.
You know, fame is a funny thing, man, especially, you know, actors, musicians, rappers, rock singers, it's kind of a lifestyle and it's easy to get caught up in it - you go to bars, you go to clubs, everyone's doing a certain thing... It's tough.
Design is a funny word. Some people think design means how it looks. But of course, if you dig deeper, it's really how it works.
Forgiveness is a funny thing. It warms the heart and cools the sting.
It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead your made for life.
It's a funny thing about life if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.
But you can't focus on things that matter if all you've been is asleep for forty years. Funny how sleep rhymes with sheep. You know.
I saw 28 Days. I don't remember rehab being like a day camp or being that funny. Rehab is a dumping ground. It's a big landfill.
It's funny the way most people love the dead. Once you are dead, you are made for life.
The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not 'Eureka!' but 'That's funny...'
Everything is funny, as long as it's happening to somebody else.
It's hard to be funny when you have to be clean.
I'm not funny. What I am is brave.
If I studied all my life, I couldn't think up half the number of funny things passed in one session of congress.
A man's got to take a lot of punishment to write a really funny book.
Why is Cloud 9 so amazing? What is wrong with Cloud 8? That joke came off the top of my head, and the top of my head ain't funny!
Life would be tragic if it weren't funny.
All these jokes have been pre-approved as funny by me.
Most comedy is based on getting a laugh at somebody else's expense. And I find that that's just a form of bullying in a major way. So I want to be an example that you can be funny and be kind, and make people laugh without hurting somebody else's feelings.
I don't mean to be funny.
Like almost everyone who uses e-mail, I receive a ton of spam every day. Much of it offers to help me get out of debt or get rich quick. It would be funny if it weren't so exciting.
It's a funny old world.
I'm odd looking. Sometimes I think I look like a funny muppet.
It is funny that men who are supposed to be scientific cannot get themselves to realise the basic principle of physics, that action and reaction are equal and opposite, that when you persecute people you always rouse them to be strong and stronger.
I am odd-looking. I sometimes think I look like a funny Muppet.
Comedy is simply a funny way of being serious.
God writes a lot of comedy... the trouble is, he's stuck with so many bad actors who don't know how to play funny.
Screaming at children over their grades, especially to the point of the child's tears, is child abuse, pure and simple. It's not funny and it's not good parenting. It is a crushing, scarring, disastrous experience for the child. It isn't the least bit funny.
Whatever is funny is subversive, every joke is ultimately a custard pie... a dirty joke is a sort of mental rebellion.
I think being funny is not anyone's first choice.
It's funny how you never think about the women you've had. It's always the ones who get away that you can't forget.
It is not funny that anything else should fall down only that a man should fall down. Why do we laugh? Because it is a gravely religious matter: it is the Fall of Man. Only man can be absurd: for only man can be dignified.
To succeed in life, you need three things: a wishbone, a backbone and a funny bone.
It's always funny until someone gets hurt. Then it's just hilarious.
You know the funny thing, I don't get along with rich people. I get along with the middle class and the poor people better than I get along with the rich people.
The best ideas come as jokes. Make your thinking as funny as possible.
I guess when you turn off the main road, you have to be prepared to see some funny houses.
I got a lot of support from my parents. That's the one thing I always appreciated. They didn't tell me I was being stupid they told me I was being funny.
There's nothing cure or funny or lovable about being cheap. It's a total turn-off.
I'm blonde and tanned and normal-sized! I'm sweet, shy, funny, have a big heart and I'm nice - and I like to eat.
I used to think that everything was just being funny but now I don't know. I mean, how can you tell?
As I get older, all sorts of things become less funny. Once one has children, any cruelty involving children becomes far less amusing than when one was at the mercy of one's friends' and relatives' children.
There is nothing funny about Halloween. This sarcastic festival reflects, rather, an infernal demand for revenge by children on the adult world.
I had everything I'd hoped for, but I wasn't being myself. So I decided to be honest about who I was. It was strange: The people who loved me for being funny suddenly didn't like me for being... me.
It's funny about men and women. Men pay in cash to get them and pay in cash to get rid of them. Women pay emotionally coming and going. Neither has it easy.
A funny thing happens in real estate. When it comes back, it comes back up like gangbusters.
I know some people say I can be funny. But there is always a deeper meaning to what I say. I am a socialist at heart and have the interests of the poor in mind. When people see how I manage to work my way out of tough situations, it gives them hope in their own life.
My grandchildren are fabulous and funny.
Certainly there are things in life that money can't buy, but it's very funny - Did you ever try buying then without money?
I could party in a cardboard box with people who are funny and don't care. For me, it's really about who I surround myself with, so I just try to always be with hilarious people.
Chaos in the midst of chaos isn't funny, but chaos in the midst of order is.
It's a funny thing, the less people have to live for, the less nerve they have to risk losing nothing.
One of the funny things about the stock market is that every time one person buys, another sells, and both think they are astute.
I don't care what the haters and naysayers say. If they make jokes about me, I'll laugh because they'll probably be funny.
No matter how popular you are as a stand-up - you can go out and fill a 10,000-seat arena and be smart and funny - it's delicate to host an awards show and know where your place is and know that it's not about you, that it's about the people who are nominated, and respect that, but at the same time have your moment to show them who you are.
I've always believed that there are funny people everywhere, but they're just not comedians. In fact, some of my best comedic inspirations were not professional entertainers.
I thought 'Borat' was a breakthrough comedy, because it was really funny. It wasn't some studio-produced script with 14 writers.
"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels' is a good one because it not only turned out, I think, to be a really funny movie but it was also a delight to shoot. We were in the South of France, working with Glenne Headly and Michael Caine and Frank Oz the director - who were just fun.;Steve Martin;funny
25997;You need to be silly to be funny.;William Shatner;funny
25998;You know how old I am? I'm so old, I remember when Letterman used to be funny and it was presidents who were serious. That's how old I am.;Rush Limbaugh;funny
25999;In my circle of friends, I've always been loud and funny and talkative. But as soon as I step out of that circle, I get very quiet and introspective. I don't want the spotlight on me.;Rosie Perez;funny
26000;I remember straightening my hair because I wanted to be like everybody else, and now the fact that anybody would emulate what I do? It's just funny.;Taylor Swift;funny
26001;Sixth grade was a big time, in my childhood, of hoops and friendship, and coming up with funny things.;Adam Sandler;funny
26002;I got attention by being funny at school, pretending to be retarded, and jumping around with a deformed hand.;Leonardo DiCaprio;funny
26003;I think it's funny to be delicate with subjects that are explosive.;Jerry Seinfeld;funny
26004;Life can be dramatic and funny all in the same day.;Jennifer Aniston;funny
26005;The middle class is so funny, it's the class I know best, and it's the class where you find the most pretension, so that's what makes the middle classes so funny.;J. K. Rowling;funny
26006;I'm smart and I can be really funny and interesting and I can go toe-to-toe with anybody in a conversation.;Megan Fox;funny
26007;It's to paint directly on the canvas without any funny business, as it were, and I use almost pure turpentine to start with, adding oil as I go along until the medium becomes pure oil. I use as little oil as I can possibly help, and that's my method.;Edward Hopper;funny
26008;I had an idea of what I thought was funny. It's kind of based on how I am.;Jennifer Aniston;funny
26009;You know being relevant or coming up with something interesting, funny to say about what's current is just as hard as it might ever be depending on the serendipity of it all.;Lily Tomlin;funny
26010;It is funny the two things most men are proudest of is the thing that any man can do and doing does in the same way, that is being drunk and being the father of their son.;Gertrude Stein;funny
26011;That's what I hate about a lot of comedies, when you're hitting a line or making it funny.;Jennifer Aniston;funny
26012;I read a lot of scripts that I just don't find very funny.;Jennifer Aniston;funny
26013;My hair has never been my greatest feature, so that was funny enough unto itself that my hair became so focused on.;Jennifer Aniston;funny
26014;Comediennes are the lucky ones, because if you're funny, you can be 125 years old and they will still accept you.;Joan Rivers;funny
26015;Being funny is one of my greatest strengths. I can make girls smile when they're down, and when they're having a good time, I can carry on the joke.;John Krasinski;funny
26016;Do you know, it's funny, but I never thought of being blind as a disadvantage, and I never thought of being black as a disadvantage.;Stevie Wonder;funny
26017;If you play it straight it's funny - the best comedy is always played straight down the middle. The adjustment is understanding from the screenplay that a moment is hilarious.;Tom Hiddleston;funny
26018;Keep your sense of humor, my friend if you don't have a sense of humor it just isn't funny anymore.;Wavy Gravy;funny
26019;Funny is only something that others know about you - you can't be funny by yourself.;Chris Rock;funny
26020;Cheryl Cole and Katy Perry are two of the hottest girls in the world - and so normal and funny with it. If I was a few years older they are the kind of girls I'd like to date. I want a younger version of Cheryl and Katy - a mixture of the two would be hot.;Justin Bieber;funny
26021;Jon Stewart is exactly the same guy he's always been, only with money. He knows that the moment he really believes he's important, the funny goes away and he becomes Bill O'Reilly, except shorter and Jewish.;Denis Leary;funny
26022;Stand up is really fun because if I think of a joke or a funny idea, then I can just go and tell some people and if they laugh, they laugh right away.;Demetri Martin;funny
26023;I think a lot of stuff I find funny is from day dreaming.;Demetri Martin;funny
26024;I think since I was kid people told me that they thought I was funny.;Demetri Martin;funny
26025;The comedians I liked were Bill Cosby and Steven Wright, like just always as a comedic actor. I always liked Gary Larson, who's really funny for a cartoonist, obviously.;Demetri Martin;funny
26026;It's hard to lead a cavalry charge if you think you look funny on a horse.;Adlai E. Stevenson;funny
26027;I wear black skinny-fit jeans - I can't get away from them. It's funny because I wore baggy jeans for ages, then one day my friend convinced me to try on a skinny pair and I thought they were great.;Shaun White;funny
26028;I never smoked. I never drank and I never took drugs. The funny thing is, nothing is more boring, people like this. For me, it's OK. But most of my friends, at least they smoke and drink.;Karl Lagerfeld;funny
26029;One time I went into a restroom and a girl followed me in. I signed an autograph for her in the sink. It was pretty funny because she was in a guy's restroom and she wasn't embarrassed at all.;Zac Efron;funny
26030;The follow your dreams thing is really important because so many people are railroaded into taking other paths by their family, their friends, people who should be supportive going, 'What are you talking about?' Even just seemingly regular career paths, but if it's not what people expect for you they kind of react funny.;Joan Jett;funny
26031;A good artist is willing to die many times over. What's funny is, I've died so many times.;Billy Corgan;funny
26032;Hollywood's just not funny.;Chris Rock;funny
26033;Karaoke isn't fair when you're a comedian. The whole idea is to get people laughing and enjoying themselves, and I'm a professional funny guy.;Chris Rock;funny
26034;It's funny. You succeed, but now where are you gonna go from there? I've got to keep proving that I can laugh or cry more real each time.;Jeff Bridges;funny
26035;Do I have a long-term plan? Kind of. I have a general direction, I think. But it's funny what comes down the pike.;Jeff Bridges;funny
26036;The people I grew up around who I really liked were quick on the draw. It always just wowed me. And my mum would make weird funny comments. I can see in myself her self-deprecating, hippie humour. I can't take myself too seriously.;Drew Barrymore;funny
26037;If you tell the truth about how you're feeling, it becomes funny.;Larry David;funny
26038;I know what Germans are. They are a funny people. They are always choosing someone to lead them in a direction which they do not want to go.;Gertrude Stein;funny
26039;I was so afraid to even read a paper in front of my classmates. It is very funny because at that point my teachers would never have believed that I could speak in front of an audience of over 2,000 people.;Petra Nemcova;funny
26040;It's funny when people say, 'I don't think Julia likes me.' Honey, if I don't like you, you're going to know about it.;Julia Roberts;funny
26041;It's funny how social activists usually protest against the only things that have a credible chance of achieving the activists' goals.;Craig Bruce;funny
26042;If you're going to tell people the truth, be funny or they'll kill you.;Billy Wilder;funny
26043;I think we're all good and bad, but good's not funny. Bad is funny. Suppress the good and let the bad out, and then you can be funny.;Larry David;funny
26044;It's funny what a few no-hitters do for a body.;Satchel Paige;funny
26045;As soon as you are trying to be funny or dramatic, that's when things start feeling fake and boring.;Joseph Gordon-Levitt;funny
26046;What's funny is that the idea of popularity - even the use of the word 'popular' - is something that had been mostly absent from my life since junior high. In fact, the hallmark of life after junior high seemed to be the shedding of popularity as a central concern.;Susan Orlean;funny
26047;I mean I've seen 3D films so far and I think it's a long way to go before they replace actors. It's a funny thing with 3D, I haven't quite got it yet. Yet.;Daniel Radcliffe;funny
26048;Funny things happen to you in movies for silly reasons.;Michael Caine;funny
26049;Chris Hemsworth is like Christopher Reeve in that he can do two things: he can wear a big red cape without a shred of self-consciousness. But he's also funny as hell, and he's so sweet. So with all the fish-out-of-water stuff, he's so funny. So he does almost two jobs in a way.;Tom Hiddleston;funny
26050;I like funny guys and those, for some reason, tend to be nerdy guys.;Megan Fox;funny
26051;The nightmare is you spend the rest of your life being funny at parties and then people say, 'Why didn't you do that when you were on television?"
The funny thing about me that most people never really understand is that, at heart, I'm really a jock.
I was a hop-around. I hung out with the rockabilly crew, the guys who were trying to be rappers, the funny kids.
I wanted to be that quirky girl who writes funny songs that still have meaning.
Everything I buy is vintage and smells funny. Maybe that's why I don't have a boyfriend.
I'm a pretty funny guy, and I would love to do a comedy with a bunch of funny guys - movie-star guys, where they could help me through it.
You can't really be strong until you see a funny side to things.
It's only I have seen enough of it and the funny thing is now, I know that I'm skinny, because I know there are even smaller clothes in the store. I think I'm big, when I was big, I never thought about it.
I like reading Ball Tongue lyrics and all that stuff. And they published a book, and I wouldn't give my lyrics, and it's all wrong in the book, and I giggle. It's funny.
They say Yogi Berra is funny. Well, he has a lovely wife and family, a beautiful home, money in the bank, and he plays golf with millionaires. What's funny about that?
I don't think I'm funny.
It's funny, but you get to a time in your life when you think you have all the friends you will ever have.
Books are funny little portable pieces of thought.
It's funny. All you have to do is say something nobody understands and they'll do practically anything you want them to.
You have to discover when you're inadequate to be funny and you don't know you're inadequate when you're a kid.
I gave a funny speech at my wife's birthday party, and I'm thinking, 'Hey, I've still got it.'
There's also a certain rhythm to the way Jews talk that might be funny.
The funniest racism is the racism between minorities. It's something you don't see dramatized, but almost every minority I know who's my age, they have these funny stories about their parents stereotyping other minorities.
Very often, I don't make it through moments of recording because it is genuinely funny and absolutely ridiculous that a 60-year-old grown man is making these noises.
I had the classic 40 meltdown. I did. It's embarrassing. It was pretty funny. But then I recovered. To me, it was like a second adolescence. Hormonally, my body was changing, my mind was changing, and so my relationship to myself and the world around me came to this assault of finiteness.
Life was a funny thing that happened to me on the way to the grave.
Don't remember me as too nice or beautiful or funny, because then you'll be disappointed.
I don't like comedy. I like funny things. I don't like comedy. Like, comedy movies are just, 'Oh Jesus.'
The funny thing is I'm not bothered or sad about being on my own - after all I've never had a husband.
Light and funny has a more compelling quality when you're younger. But I haven't abandoned the genre: I love falling down I love Lucille Ball. It's just that a lot of those stories revolve around problems that I can't convincingly portray at this age.
I actually think of being funny as an odd turn of mind, like a mild disability, some weird way of looking at the world that you can't get rid of.
When I was a little kid, I wrote this play about all these characters living in a haunted house. There was a witch who lived there, and a mummy. When they were all hassling him, this guy who bought the house - I can't believe I remember this - he said to them, 'Who's paying the mortgage on this haunted house?' I thought that was really funny.
Sometimes I think what I write is funny in its quiet way.
Actually I never did stand up. I'm not that funny.
The funny thing is, the girls that I'm always up against for roles are pretty nice and cool, like Emma Watson. She's awesome.
I love readings and my readers, but the din of voices of the audience gives me stage fright, and the din of voices inside whisper that I am a fraud, and that the jig is up. Surely someone will rise up from the audience and say out loud that not only am I not funny and helpful, but I'm annoying, and a phony.
I've thought for the last decade or so, the only actual place raw truth was seeping through in newspapers was on the Comics Pages. They were able to pull off intelligent social comment, pure truths not found elsewhere in the news pages, and had the ability to make it all funny, entertaining, and pertinent.
I have only been funny about seventy four per cent of the time. Yes I think that is right. Seventy-four per cent of the time.
No, no, I was only funny on stage, really. I, I, think I was funny as a person toward my classmates when I was very young. You know, when I was a child, up to about the age of 12.
Hemingway seems to be in a funny position. People nowadays can't identify with him closely as a member of their own generation, and he isn't yet historical.
I think the pattern of my essays is, A funny thing happened to me on my way through Finnegans Wake.
It's funny to be a critic.
I find it so funny that people find me so interesting.
Great, big, serious novels always get awards. If it's a battle between a great, big, serious novel and a funny novel, the funny novel is doomed.
We've seen some insane signs: 'Is that a loaf of bread in your pocket, or are you just happy to see me?' Funny stuff along those lines. Very original. One just said, 'I will do unspeakable things.' I thought that was very interesting - and mildly terrifying!
You know what's funny? I don't ever feel the need to escape. I have a strong marriage. I like my life. You hear about these guys having midlife crises - I don't see that happening to me.
I don't really get shaken very much. People could heckle me, a spotlight could go out, I could forget a lyric... I'm not operating on somebody's brain, you know what I mean? So I just think it's all funny.
Without hurting anybody, we all tend to laugh at others' discomfort. When someone slips on a banana skin and falls it's funny.
Always remember your kid's name. Always remember where you put your kid. Don't let your kid drive until their feet can reach the pedals. Use the right size diapers... for yourself. And, when in doubt, make funny faces.
I had to act in a school play when I was about ten years old. I really didn't want to do it. But everyone had to do it so I didn't have a choice. A talent agent came and watched it and later gave me some work. It's funny because I'd always known that I wanted a movie career. I just didn't think that I would be in the movies.
I'm like, bursting. I should be working. I don't want to take a break. It's funny, on set, I don't have to go to the bathroom, I don't have anything wrong, I'm perfectly fine, so through-and-through. I'm not hungry. I'm literally not even in my own body.
It's a funny thing: You want so badly for people to see what you do - you're proud of it - and I like the effect that movies have on people. But the attention can also make me uncomfortable.
And I like to keep whatever is mine remaining that way. It's a funny little game to play and it's a slippery slope. I always say to myself I'm never going to give anything away because there's never any point or benefit for me.
It's not an accident that both my sister and I are writers. Our parents created an accidental Petri dish. My family has great storytellers, and I grew up in a very funny, conversational house and didn't have television. This small family farm was a bubble world that didn't have much to do with reality.
"Come out' is so funny to me because I've never been in.;Adam Lambert;funny
26101;The word 'funny' is a bit like the word 'love' - we don't have enough words to describe the many varieties.;George Saunders;funny
26102;A romantic comedy has to be funny and make you think about life but the obstacle that has to be overcome is key.;Jennifer Lopez;funny
26103;There's something dangerous about what's funny. Jarring and disconcerting. There is a connection between funny and scary.;Christopher Walken;funny
26104;Some people can do things and get away with it. Comics are famously like that. Why is it that some guys can say the most horrible things and it's not offensive, it's funny?;Christopher Walken;funny
26105;I always like to watch comics and it's interesting that you can tell if someone's funny in 10 seconds.;Christopher Walken;funny
26106;I guess now that I think back, I used to play priest and be a funny priest. I don't know, I grew up in such a Catholic family that I kind of liked to test the boundaries a little bit and I think I had fun watching my mom laugh.;Jenny McCarthy;funny
26107;Comedy's so subjective, and if someone comes to watch, doesn't get it, doesn't find it funny, then fine.;Johnny Vegas;funny
26108;The funny thing is people won't let me pay for things. I'll be in a restaurant and the manager will say, 'Oh no, it's on the house."
The trick is always to write in pairs because if at least two people find it funny, you've immediately halved the odds of it not being funny.
It's not common for a woman on television, especially if she's the mom of the family, to be funny. She's usually a straight man or foil.
I watch things that are fun, or funny, or interesting.
Funny enough, if you are looking at people these days who are putting Botox in their face and getting all sorts of plastic surgery, we look at them and go, I can tell you've had Botox. I can tell you've had plastic surgery. You look really strange to me. But no one's saying anything. We're just accepting the fact that they're strange-looking.
No one ever thought Clint Eastwood was funny, but he was.
I mean, I - it's so funny, I am, you know, I am, you know, a working woman out in the world, but I still live with my parents half the time. I've been sort of taking this very long, stuttering period of moving out.
There's always an article coming out, saying, 'The new thing is funny women!'
It's funny, I never considered that people are going to see me on the show and maybe stop me on the subway.
I never thought of myself as like, a funny person.
Literature has drawn a funny perimeter that other art forms haven't.
The kind of funny irony is that a lot of people talk about ethical meat eating as if it's a way to care about things, but also not to alienate yourself from the rest of the world. But it's so much more alienating than vegetarianism.
I'm not funny. People assume that because my books are funny, I'll be funny in real life. It's the inevitable disappointment of meeting me.
You find out in life that people really like you funny. So what do you give 'em? Humor. And then if you show them the other side, they don't like you as much. I find, too, that I can hide behind the idiot's mask being funny, and you never see the sorrow or the pain.
At the end of the day it's got to be a good movie, it's got to be a funny movie, and it's got to make people think, 'Hey, I couldn't have spent my time any better.'
When you're out of sight for as long as I was, there's a funny feeling of betrayal that comes over people when they see you again.
I'd like to do a film which is funny.
Japanese people have a funny habit of abbreviating names.
I find it very easy playing Bond. I think he's hilarious. He gets himself into some extraordinarily funny situations.
At home in L.A., Sunday is lazy. It's the wife and me lying in bed with coffee, watching 'The Soup' or something funny on TiVo. The kid will occasionally join us. Eventually, breakfast is at a place down the street called Paty's. And we always have some kind of great dinner - my wife makes a great roast beef.
What other people call dark and despairing, I call funny.
The funny thing is that I'm the girl who no one sees at the beach. Ask anyone who's traveled with me. Normally, I'm in so many layers, I look like Lawrence of Arabia!
Who do I like? I am a big fan of French and Saunders - not that that they are particularly stand-up I have to say, but I think they have been great for women and they are of themselves just incredibly funny whether they are male or female.
The thing I thought about doing it was it's Comic Relief and you've got to be funny. So although I did try to sing properly it obviously has hilarious results when you can't sing.
I made a supreme effort not to do that thing that parents do, which is to bore people without children to death by going on and on about how funny their children are, so there's none of that hopefully.
I thought I was funny as a kid.
It used to be that you had to make female TV characters perfect so no one would be offended by your 'portrayal' of women. Even when I started out on 'The Office' eight years ago, we could write our male characters funny and flawed, but not the women. And now, thankfully, it's completely different.
People don't want to listen to a celebrity tweeting about their charities and shows. That's why comedy writers do well - we put out little funny ideas.
The reason why you know more funny dudes than funny chicks is that dudes are funnier than chicks. If my daughter has a mediocre sense of humor, I'm just gonna tell her, 'Be a staff writer for a sitcom. Because they'll have to hire you, they can't really fire you, and you don't have to produce that much. It'll be awesome.'
I don't hate humanity and I'm not interested in people who do. Although, it's funny, actually, some of my favorite writers really do. Like Martin Amis. My dirty secret. 'London Fields' is one of my favorite books ever. And it's indefensible! But he's so funny... I forgive him everything.
I used to say, 'Man, I think I'd be a really good dad. I'll be a great provider. I'm funny I'll go on trips with them - I'll do all sorts of stuff.' But the momming? I'm not made for that. I have a really good mom I know what she put into it.
It's funny, I do try to maintain health. I started doing Bikram yoga which is that hothouse yoga, the 105 degrees yoga for 90 minutes. It's great, you purge out all the sweat and you're drinking water.
It's funny how many people will come to Vegas to see your show where they might not come out to see you unless you come to their hometown.
It's funny: I'm a lifelong musician, but because I principally play the piano it's been a solitary thing.
Our records, if you have a dark sense of humor, were funny, but our records weren't about comedy. They were about protests, fantasy, confrontation and all that.
It's funny how people who ain't never been down there can think that America is so fair and that we should be alright. It's funny that the people who have their foot on our neck are telling us, 'Get up. What's wrong with you?'
It's a funny show. The characters are surprisingly likable, given how ugly they are. We've got this huge cast of characters that we can move around. And over the last few seasons, we've explored some of the secondary characters' personal lives a bit more.
Laurence Olivier said in an interview once that when he plays a tragedy he always aims for the funny parts, and the other way around. Because in a comedy you look for what's serious. I think that's true. Sometimes things are really funny if you're absolutely earnest. If you're really serious, it's hilarious.
I never know when I am being funny, and the other way too. I don't think you can think about that. I don't think you can try to be funny. Some people are just funny.
I tend to head for what's amusing because a lot of things aren't happy. But usually you can find a funny side to practically anything.
The funny thing is, Dennis Miller got me back into comedy.
I'm half Jewish, I'm half black, I look in-between. I dress funny. I play all these different styles of music on one record. It's like, What is he doing?
The fans of 'The Hunger Games,' of the book, are very passionate. It's funny: Even at my concerts there are people holding up 'Cinna' signs.
It's funny how the music industry is enraged about the Internet and the way things are copied without being paid for. But you know why people steal the music? Because they can't afford the music.
It's funny, I can sit through the worst horror film ever made but even a quite good romantic comedy can drive me nuts.
Life's pretty funny when you're objectively on the outside looking at it.
People used to be funny about approaching me, but now they seem to think I'm as sane as anyone who's done what I've done in movies can be.
You know, you can touch a stick of dynamite, but if you touch a venomous snake it'll turn around and bite you and kill you so fast it's not even funny.
I have this horrible sense of humor where I think discomfort is funny - partly because I experience discomfort a lot, and it's a way of laughing at it and getting a release.
I can never tell when something is funny. I just have to do it onstage and find out.
My parents are very funny when they have to deal with anything racy or off-color. They usually pretend they don't speak English.
Well, I mean, if a joke or humor is bawdy, it's got to be funny enough to warrant it. You can't just have it bawdy or dirty just for the sake of being that - it's got to be funny.
In this world, everyone wants to know everything about you, and I think that's funny.
I'm just not one of those naturally funny, relaxed actors who enjoy the spotlight and are so good at it.
I turned down 'Some Like It Hot.' See how smart I am? I felt I couldn't bring anything funny to it. The outfit was funny. I don't need to compete with the wardrobe.
I mean, sometimes... a comedian becomes an actor, and they just don't deliver, because the bottom line of comedy is to be funny, and the bottom line of acting is to be truthful, and they get that mixed up sometimes, or don't even notice that that's the thing.
I need to be cheered up a lot. I think funny people are people who need to be cheered up.
Boston is actually the capital of the world. You didn't know that? We breed smart-ass, quippy, funny people. Not that I'm one of them. I just sorta sneaked in under the radar.
It's not so much what you learn about Mumbai, it's what you learn about yourself, really. It's a funny old hippie thing, but it's true as well. You find out a lot about yourself and your tolerance, and about your inclusiveness.
I was lucky. My family is wonderful. And it's funny, because most of my best friends come from very large families. So it always felt as if I had lots of siblings, though in the end I had to leave them and go home. I kind of got the best of both worlds as a kid.
I think there have always been funny women, from Carol Burnett to Joan Rivers. When the audience sees a woman, they innately know she's worked twice as hard to get there, she's had to prove that she can be the leader, first, and then be funny on top of it. She has to emit a confidence that she's in control.
Justin Timberlake is everything, and what more could you want in a person? He's funny. He's cute. He's great. He just understands. I get him and he gets me, and that's cool.
When humor can be made to alternate with melancholy, one has a success, but when the same things are funny and melancholic at the same time, it's just wonderful.
When human judgment and big data intersect there are some funny things that happen.
It's funny, when bands or younger musicians ask me: 'So, what does it take to make it?' Well, first explain to me what you mean by 'making it': Do you want to be a rock star or do you want music to be your livelihood?
I mean it's funny, playing music, how of course you want it to do well, you want them to like it, but it's not competitive like an election, it's the Olympics, it's not a Formula 1 race. The Billboard charts are just to show you what people like.
It's funny how making odd noises can get you into strange situations sometimes.
I love things made out of animals. It's just so funny to think of someone saying, 'I need a letter opener. I guess I'll have to kill a deer.
It's funny - if you impersonate somebody, they have no idea it's them.
Being funny, it turns out, is like being a bank. It's a confidence trick. As long as everyone believes in you, you are fine.
It's funny, as you live through something you're not aware of it.
Maybe I'm delusional but I'm usually funny. It's not 100% but I have a pretty good batting average.
If Joy Behar or Sherri Shepherd was a dude, they'd be off TV. They're not funny enough for dudes. What if Roseanne Barr was a dude? Think we'd know who she was?
It's funny when you're a kid how you can acclimate to almost anything.
I sometimes lie awake at night trying to think of something funny that Richard Nixon said.
My father was always a straight-up funny guy. He was silly. He was my inspiration.
As a writer, or as a filmmaker, you have to present yourself, and part of what yourself is is what you're interested in, or what you think is funny, or what you think is sad, or what you think is horrible.
People ask 'do you make a conscious effort not to swear?' - if you're doing silly stuff you're not tempted to put swearing in. All the comics from my childhood, who were funny without swearing, were the people that influenced me. What I do is quite traditional anyway.
I always find it kind of embarrassing, kind of funny, and kind of exciting. In New York I'm recognized a lot, although nobody says anything. You know, they stare at you just a second too long. But in Paris it's not as commonplace to be recognized.
I don't think, 'Gee, I'd like to dress this person.' There was a picture in Us magazine. It was a jersey dress, and Courtney Love was wearing it. I have this thing about Courtney Love, this funny worship.
I grew up in a funny way.
I got to dress up in funny clothes and run around New Zealand with a bow and arrow for 18 months, how bad could that be?
It was always a fantasy of mine growing up - my favorite program was always 'Little House on the Prairie' - so I always wanted to wear those looks. When I was a child, I wouldn't let my mom put me in anything but calico dresses and now... whaddaya know, every day I'm in a calico dress, basically, so it's kind of funny.
Something about New York, man: You can do more comedy there probably than you can anywhere in the world. If you're interested in being funny, New York is the place to go.
It's funny with fiction - once you cut something, it hasn't happened anymore.
I read the script for Wonder Boys, and I said that was almost perfect, it was so classy, cool and funny. It's a really specific thing. We stuck to it, it turned out good and a lot of people liked it.
It's funny that there was so much disturbance about having a Catholic in the White House with Kennedy, and when we finally get a religion in the White House that's causing a lot of conflicts, and concerns, and disturbances for a lot of people, it's in the Bush Administration.
If you use tact you can say anything, then make it funny.
I think Chris Rock at the Oscars was a great example. I thought that was intellectually hilarious. The Gap starts a war with Banana Republic... That to me was funny.
I'd love to date somebody cool, fun, funny.
You know, I've always thought that it would be really funny if somebody made a romantic comedy where absolutely everything went well from beginning to end.
I'm very silly as a person, but quality silliness on-screen has more of an art to it. Harrison Ford, whom I was in 'Morning Glory' with, has mastered that dry funny better than anyone.
This is going to sound really funny. I have a poster of Zac Efron on my wall! I think every girl has a poster of him in their room so, why not join the club!
I'm an unorthodox type of guy, a funny guy - at least I think I'm funny. And one of the things I like to do is come up with nicknames for myself.
Hurried and worried until we're buried, and there's no curtain call, Lifes a very funny proposition after all.
In a funny way, poems are suited to modern life. They're short, they're intense. Nobody has time to read a 700-page book. People read magazines, and a poem takes less time than an article.
I don't have a caustic sense of humor. What I find funny, that humor comes from a much gentler place.
On the stage you're there, it's live. There's a beginning, a middle, an end. When something is funny you hear it right away.
Some of the writers I admire who seem very, very funny and very emotional to me can develop a closeness with the reader without giving too much of themselves away. Lorrie Moore comes to mind, as does David Sedaris. When they write, the reader thinks that they're being trusted as a friend.
I think a lot of humor is about distracting yourself. Pretend you're not trying to make it funny. Because for some reason the effort to be funny smells like sulphur in our culture.
It's funny. People often compare me to other humor essayists. They're usually quite nice comparisons I will accept those gladly. But I am always sort of appalled at the idea of being lumped with other, more chick-y female writers. And the truth is probably that neither comparison is accurate.
Queer Eye for the Straight Guy is a form of service journalism. To be successful, I think it has to be a combination of a good story, it has to be funny, and it also needs to be packed with useful information.
With improv, it's a combination of listening and not trying to be funny.
For a culture that has such a problem with death, we seem to deal with it in a quite bizarre way. We see people shot, killed and blown up, and we find it funny and sexy and all those things. But, the reality of it is that every day people die, and people are really sad and they grieve and they go through a really difficult process with it.
Sometimes I feel like there are people just waiting for me to fall. The funny thing is, I can't give them anything. I have just never been a partier, even in school.
It's funny. When I saw the script in my inbox and it said 'Sparkle,' I thought, 'For real? It's really called 'Sparkle?'' I was wondering, too, how does 'Jordin Sparks as Sparkle' sound?
I'm so single. It's funny. I'm usually a relationship girl. I love being in love and having a partner in crime. But it's good to be your own partner in crime. God, that makes me sound like I have multiple-personality disorder.
I think things are funny when the character is taking it totally seriously.
The word 'Spanx' was funny. It made people laugh. No one ever forgot it.
It's painful for me to watch someone who isn't funny. It's horrifying to sit in the back and watch some guy who just totally sucks.
If you are a great dramatic actor then you often don't know if people are enjoying your stuff at all because they are sitting there in silence. But with comedy it's a simple premise. If it's funny, people laugh. If it's not, they don't.
The surprising thing is that I was not funny in high school. I was always jealous of the funny kids because they always got the girls. I couldn't tell a joke to save my life.
I don't really necessarily think I'm a funny guy, but I like the opportunity to take on something that I don't feel I'm the best at doing.
I'm never afraid to try something if I think it's funny. And I know I'll regret it if I don't.
Here is my prescription to heal all wounds. Watch the film 'Funny Girl' at least five times, eat at least 45 chocolate bars, and hang out with all those friends you blew off to hang out with your ex. I truly believe that, through a combination of Nutella, old pals and Barbra Streisand, we can achieve happiness and, very probably, world peace.
My size has helped make me an amazing performer too. The cliche of the Funny Fat Friend: I absolutely was that character - I am that character... It's a complicated bag of tools I acquired, and I've put them all to work onstage.
It sounds funny, but the 2008 Olympics were something that just kind of happened, and I was lucky they came at a point when I was uninjured and well prepared. As a gymnast, you can't ask for much more.
I think I have an inner confidence that my tastes are pretty simple, that what I find funny finds a wide audience. I'm not particularly intellectual or clever or minority-focused in my creative instincts. And I'm certainly not aware of suppressing more sophisticated ambitions.
Funny things tend not to happen to me. I am not a natural comic. I need to think about things a lot before I can be even remotely amusing.
This may sound funny, but as much as the 'Today' show matured me, it also was something of a cocoon. I'd been happy there. I never went into the boss's office and pounded my fist on the desk, saying, 'Give me more money! Give me a prime-time show!'
I think I'm funny because my family, my siblings were funny.
It's funny how the hippies and the punks tried to get rid of the conservatives, but they always seem to get the upper hand in the end.
I show them the funny part, the silly part, the laughing part, the crazy part and then the really deep, deep part where I'm talking from my heart to these people. Because I've been through everything they've been through.
Especially with a comedy, you've got the clear cut goal of trying to make a scene funny. It's not like drama where you're trying to achieve some kind of emotion or trying to further the story along. You're trying to figure out what's the funniest way to do something.
I've started looking at my own father a bit funny. He assures me, though, that I really am the son of a Scottish postman.
I don't know now if I'm funny. I just keep talking and hope that I hit something that's funny.
In terms of the creative side of it, it's really been a thing where you come up with the funny stuff is usually at a bar or out talking to people or whatever.
It's funny because I think a lot of it is simply... We've never considered ourselves satirists, but because we're on Comedy Central and because we're South Park on Comedy Central, we can do any topic we want.
No, writing musicals is the hardest thing in the world. And it was really funny, because I remember when the South Park movie came out, there were some critics that said, 'Well it's obvious that in order to get it to be 90 minutes they filled some time with music.'
Nothing's funny about someone who's successful.
TV is easier: it's all planned out for you and the audience is there to see a show and they are all pumped up but when you are in a comedy club, you have to be really funny to win them over.
It's funny because I'm a sucker for glitz and glitter when it comes to clothes and nail polish, but with my makeup, I'm more comfortable with a natural look. It feels more like me.
It's funny because it's funny.
I'm on so late I'm definitely the last seconds of anyone's attention. So I just want to give them something dumb to laugh at, so they go, 'That's funny,' then fall asleep.
I recently spent quite a bit of time in Sheffield, England, which is where I'm from. I wouldn't move back there, but it's funny when you spend a bit of time in the place where you were brought up. You kind of realize how that place has had quite a big effect on you or made you a certain way.
I listen like mad to any conversation taking place next to me just trying to hear why this is funny. Women's restrooms are especially great. I wash my hands twice waiting for people to come in and start talking.
I don't just try to be funny.
It's harder to be funny if you're handsome than if you're very normal-looking. It's just more relatable. You're the underdog. I mean it's funny to see people struggle, and you don't buy that Brad Pitt is struggling, you know that guy could be the most skill-less guy in the world, but if you look like that you will be fine for the rest of your life.
It's funny, because I never think of myself as Little Miss All-Together.
When I was a kid I didn't feel like I fit in because - this is really silly and I probably shouldn't say it, but, I didn't think anything was funny. So I used to go home and literally cry to my mom and my step-dad at the time and I didn't think anything was funny. I couldn't laugh.
I realized my family was funny, because nobody ever wanted to leave our house.
You know what? I never really factor Hollywood into anything. I'm a black actor, so I can't really control what Hollywood thinks. I gotta go do my thing, and my jokes have got to be funny. Whatever I do has got to be great.
I really wanted to just be a musician. I didn't want to be anything else, but I was funny and all that.
For years I used to bore my wife over lunch with stories about funny incidents.
Movies these days have made killers into funny people. What's that all about? I've got kids and family and friends, and I don't like bad things. I don't think they're funny, and it's irresponsible to make movies that don't show you how that's not good.
I tell you, it's funny because the only time I think about HIV is when I have to take my medicine twice a day.
A comedian's body is funny as well as his mind being funny, his whole personage is funny.
I want to be in 'Funny Girl.' And I want Ryan Murphy to direct it.
It would be pretty funny to see a Beverly Hills white girl with mad rap skills.
Being a funny person does an awful lot of things to you. You feel that you mustn't get serious with people. They don't expect it from you, and they don't want to see it. You're not entitled to be serious, you're a clown.
Comedy is not funny. Comedy is hard work and timing and lots and lots of rehearsals.
That's why I like to get out there, and get people to see the other side of Mitt, and know us in a different reflection when you see the family and how funny he is with the boys and with the grandkids. And you know, just what a super guy he is. That's part of what I am doing, is letting people see the other side of Mitt.
Funny is funny.
Memories are doing funny things to us.
My dad loved to laugh. He was very funny and very silly.
Europe is scooters. Europe is five young people on one bench sharing a chocolate bar. Their idea of entertainment and fun is so much different than ours, which is exactly why a movie about them would be funny.
So that's why one of my rules of parody writing is that it's gotta be funny regardless of whether you know the source material. It has to work on its own merit.
People never ask people doing serious music, 'Do you ever think about doing funny music?'
I've never really understood that. It's a funny thing people sometimes accuse us of condescending to our characters somehow-that to me is kind of inexplicable.
Ninety-eight per cent of laughter is nothing to do with jokes, which do not deserve to bear the weight of all the funny stuff in the world.
The history of the relationship between comedy and swimming is short indeed. Of course it is always funny when someone falls into water, but that's about it.
"Married with Children' was racy. It was sexist. It was a lot of things, but mostly it was funny.;Katey Sagal;funny
26270;My mother was a terrific force in my life. Wartime-generation woman, hadn't gone to university but should have done. Was very funny, very verbal, very clever, very witty.;Ian Hislop;funny
26271;I was doing sketches that were funny but socially irresponsible. I felt I was deliberately being encouraged and I was overwhelmed.;Dave Chappelle;funny
26272;It's funny recently I've started to notice people's impersonations of me, and it's basically like a hyperactive child.;Dave Grohl;funny
26273;It's funny I actually made poorer decisions when I sobered up then when I was screwed up.;Corey Feldman;funny
26274;It's funny, having the same name as someone. Me, Emma Watson and Emma Stone, the amount of times I've been called Emma Watson or Emma Stone is so funny. It's just 'cause we're all named Emma. None of us look alike.;Emma Roberts;funny
26275;I don't really have a type of guy I like. It's just like nice guys, cute boys I mean, ones that are funny.;Emma Roberts;funny
26276;But I think Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang really got that thing where, if a movie reads really funny and then has some dramatic or violent or sinister stuff in it, you can't forget that primarily it has to be even funnier than you read it or that other stuff doesn't work.;Robert Downey, Jr.;funny
26277;I wish I could be as thin as Jessica Simpson. I think she looks gorgeous! I have had Jessica on my show several times, and I can tell you that girl is genuine and funny with a great self-deprecating sense of humor.;Rachael Ray;funny
26278;And at the time, it is funny how you can look at something and say, for example with my shoulder injury, when it first happened I said this is the worst thing that could happen to me. Why me, why now? Now I look back and say it was probably the best thing that happened to me.;Drew Brees;funny
26279;I think we're the only jokeless show on television. I mean really, we have no setups and no punch lines. It's not a joke show. There are funny lines and funny moments but again the comedy is born of the human experience and awkward pauses are a great part of what it is to be human.;Rainn Wilson;funny
26280;We've got a bunch of new writers now who tell me they grew up watching The Simpsons. It's bizarre, and they're writing some very funny stuff.;Matt Groening;funny
26281;Sometimes people get mad at The Simpsons' subversive story telling, but there's another message in there, which is a celebration of making wild, funny stories.;Matt Groening;funny
26282;I can always get better. A lot of my ex-girlfriends don't think I'm funny.;Dane Cook;funny
26283;I didn't plan to be the rude middle-class comedian. You write a certain type of joke that you find funny, and mine happen to be often rude. Yes, it's juvenile, but that's me.;Jimmy Carr;funny
26284;Only bad golfers are lucky. They're the ones bouncing balls off trees, curbs, turtles and cars. Good golfers have bad luck. When you hit the ball straight, a funny bounce is bound to be unlucky.;Lee Trevino;funny
26285;Music is more difficult - try naming a political band. The Dead Kennedys. The Dead Kennedys are political, but they are more funny than they are political.;Thom Yorke;funny
26286;We sit in a room for months trying to think of funny things.;David Walliams;funny
26287;I love a smart, well-written show, and '30 Rock,' well, you can't get any better than that. Tina Fey poos funny. There's nothing that she does that isn't funny. That show is an example of how brilliant she is. It's so smart. They've done some brilliant commentary about the 'Housewives' with 'Queen of Jordan,' their show-within-the-show.;Andy Cohen;funny
26288;I am accusing him of stealing my best material, he was a very funny man.;Frank Carson;funny
26289;It's unbearable when someone changes around you. Just imagine that your life partner changes, then it is difficult to cope with. Or your mother. Or your father. They were strong and now they're like a baby - it's not so funny.;Michael Haneke;funny
26290;'Funny Games' was conceived as a provocation. My other films are different. If people feel my other films are, or respond to them as provocation, then that's quite different. 'Funny Games' is the only one of mine where my intention was to provoke the audience.;Michael Haneke;funny
26291;When I first envisioned 'Funny Games' in the mid-1990s, it was my intention to have an American audience watch the movie. It is a reaction to a certain American cinema, its violence, its naivety, the way American cinema toys with human beings. In many American films, violence is made consumable.;Michael Haneke;funny
26292;I have an inability to enjoy things, but that's why we're in comedy. If we were happy, we wouldn't be funny, I guess.;Paul Feig;funny
26293;For years, it's driven me crazy that women don't have better roles, especially in comedies. I know so many funny women but I always felt... misogynist streak is too strong a term - but a dismissiveness.;Paul Feig;funny
26294;I love funny people, and when I'm with funny people, or people who are amusing in their weirdness, I love it. Because that to me is funny, as opposed to someone who stops and says, 'Hey let me tell you a joke."
What's so great about working with really funny women is that vanity comes second. Whatever makes it real and funny, they're going to go for, and it's just great.
What I don't like is when I see stuff that I know has had a lot of improv done or is playing around where there's no purpose to the scene other than to just be funny. What you don't want is funny scene, funny scene, funny scene, and now here's the epiphany scene and then the movie's over.
Women's humor seems to be a little more supportive. It's just kind of trying to make the other one laugh through funny voices and kind of talking about other people. I respond to that. I feel less like I'm going to get beat up in a room full of women than I do in a room full of guys.
It's funny when people say you have sex appeal or call you the next Brad Pitt. I just laugh. I'm not that. I don't want to be that.
By no means do I want to be a piece of meat for the rest of my career. It's funny when you get asked to do a talk show, and then they follow it up with requesting you take your shirt off.
See, I don't really go after girls. Most of the girlfriends I've had have come after me. So it's really funny when girls get offended because I don't hit on them.
It's interesting that whenever I meet some of the other Bond girls, I always have something in common, and it is an interesting sorority. We all share about our Bonds. 'Did your Bond do that?' 'Yes mine did!' So it is quite funny conversations. We may as well be in high school.
You know, Stephen says, in the movies no one ever goes to the bathroom. They shave, they brush their teeth. He goes right at this sort of funny taboo we have about the bathroom, and he turned it into this nightmare, you know, your worst fear of what's in there.
Funny is an attitude.
My main point is to be funny if I can slip a message in there, fine.
Things can be funny only when we are in fun. When we're 'dead earnest,' humor is the only thing that is dead.
Funny is not a color. Being black is only good from the time you get from the curtain to the microphone.
I don't believe that anybody has come to a conclusion on why something is funny. It's funny because it's ridiculous and it's ridiculous for different reasons at different times.
There are so many funny women in the world, and there has been for so many years, so I'll be happy when people can just move on from that, and things can just be 'comedies' and not 'female' or 'male,' and everyone gets an equal opportunity.
But if something funny happens, I can't resist. I have to tell the people.
I would like to do something modern and possibly funny.
I've always enjoyed making people laugh. But in order for me to be funny, I have to get ticked off about something.
Everyone comes up to me saying, 'Cooee, Julie! Hello!' as if I know them. Of course I don't bloody know them. Am I flummoxed by it? Sometimes. I think, 'Ooh, love, go easy.' For a time, I did feel this pressure that I had to be funny, but it passes.
Oh all the time when Victoria Wood and I did our series. There were people asking 'Can women be funny?' People still ask that. It's like asking: 'Can women breathe in and out?'
I was the little, funny one. I felt I was the child among grown women.
It's a real primal thing, watching someone get hurt. It's funny and accessible.
It's a funny thing - when I'm crazed with work, spending time with my children relaxes me. Yet, at the end of a long weekend with them, the very thing I need to relax is a little work and time away from them!
It's really funny because the same people who loved me as Stringer Bell were the same people that were watching 'Daddy's Little Girls' literally in tears.
I had seen movies before that that had made me laugh, but I had never seen anything even remotely close to as funny as Richard Pryor was, just standing there talking.
I wouldn't totally rule out doing Letterman or the Tonight Show if I had a set that I just happened to write that I thought was funny but was still appropriate for network censors. But I'm not going to go out of my way.
The audience changes every night. You're the same person. You have to speak your mind and do the stuff that you think is funny and makes you laugh.
The misconception is that standup comics are always on. I don't know any really funny comics that are annoying and constantly trying to be funny all the time.
I used to say I wanted somebody funny and intelligent, but kindness is the most important quality in a man.
The great thing is that the funny side of getting old is fuel for my comedy.
I think it's always funny when you see kids do Shakespeare.
But with comedy it's a simple premise. If it's funny, people laugh. If it's not, they don't.
Hitchcock had a charm about him. He was very funny at times. He was incredibly brilliant in his field of suspense.
One lion thinks it's just hilarious to tackle us. He's very funny about it... and we always know when it will happen.
Working with Chaplin was very amusing and strange. His films are so funny, but working with him, I found him to be a very serious man. Whereas the films of Hitchcock are macabre, he could be a very funny man to work with, always telling jokes and holding court. Of course, when I worked with Charlie he was getting older.
I actually find novels that are determined to be funny at every turn quite oppressive.
It's funny, though, with films, because you can incorporate a variety of elements, and sometimes that can work for you and sometimes I think it can work against you.
Comedians don't laugh. They're too busy analyzing why it's funny or not.
What was really funny is that as I got older all those guys who called me a sissy in junior high school wanted me to be their best friend because they wanted to meet all the girls that I knew in figure skating.
I can't not find humor in elements of most parts of life, but at the same time nothing ever seems perpetually funny to me.
And, in a funny way, each death is different and you mourn each death differently and each death brings back the death you mourned earlier and you get into a bit of a pile-up.
Also, in a funny way, if you have been happily married there are no unresolved areas, nothing to prove to yourself after the other dies.
People often ask me how I make things funny. I don't make things funny.
If you work at comedy too laboriously, you can kill what's funny in the joke.
For some reason and I don't know why, but I don't think that I'm funny in California. So I always want to do my movies east somewhere.
I took 'P.S. I Love You' thinking it was going to be a little funny, and I ended up crying every day on that film.
I think 'Saturday Night Live', starting in the 1970s, really gave women an outlet to be funny. A lot of those women went on to have film careers, from Kristen Wiig now to Tina Fey and Gilda Radner.
I write about wounds, the eternal treasons of life. It's not very funny, but it's sincere. My commitment is to sincerity.
When I was doing ensemble theater and comedy work, I felt I had some talents. But when I started doing my shows in Berkeley and found that I could be funny on my own, I was shocked.
Memory is funny. Once you hit a vein the problem is not how to remember but how to control the flow.
People just don't laugh when their family is violated, and you don't shrug it off. You band together and you defend together. It's a funny, primitive instinct.
There's always something funny about men chasing women.
I don't know who the hell Paul Lynde is, or why he's funny, and I prefer it to be a mystery to me.
Politicians... talk in generalities and lies, and I think they've caused all our grief. They're so awful, they're really funny. I hate thinking this because my dad loved politics.
As soon as I realized you could be funny as a job, that was the job I wanted.
I think when you do comedy, you play by a different set of rules. No one really wants you to be in that good shape. Being in good shape implies a level of vanity that isn't necessarily funny.
To me, what separates a funny movie from a good movie is something personal.
I can't watch other people doing comedy. As soon as somebody starts being funny I have to turn off because it upsets me. I get comedy indigestion. I just hate anybody else being funny. That's my job.
As a five-year-old in Berlin in 1965, I didn't know that funny women existed. It wasn't until I got back to England that I realised women could be funny.
Leno, Conan. They are both really funny. They really know how to land one.
Straight men just can't imagine the bliss of being in a relationship with someone who finds farting as funny as they do.
We live in a funny time. If you don't go corporate, you can't compete. You're relegated as irrelevant. People used to admire that.
You can't teach somebody how to be funny. You're either funny, or you ain't.
The things that make me angry still make me angry. George Carlin is 67, and he's still as funny as he's ever been, and he's still angry. And that makes me feel good, because I feel like if I stick around long enough, I'll still be able to work.
The fact that the Kardashians could be more popular than a show like 'Mad Men' is disgusting. It's a super disgusting part of our culture, but I still find it funny to make a joke about it.
"Funny People' is my favorite performance of myself to date. Even though it's a comedy and there are serious moments, I really felt like Leo felt like a real person. It didn't feel like I was playing myself. Whether it's a comedy or drama, I just try to make it as realistic as possible.;Jonah Hill;funny
26360;I don't want to be the one to break it to you, but the future ain't that funny.;Albert Brooks;funny
26361;Twitter, to me, works if you're funny. Twitter doesn't work as a promotional tool unless you do it very, very, very occasionally.;Albert Brooks;funny
26362;I've been to many funerals of funny people, and they're some of the funniest days you'll ever have, because the emotions run high.;Albert Brooks;funny
26363;I think a lot of times on TV we see caricatures - that's what's funny.;Mayim Bialik;funny
26364;I love being a dad, it keeps me fit and inspired and children are so funny. They always supply you with acting material!;Wesley Snipes;funny
26365;It's funny how most activists are pacifists.;Craig Bruce;funny
26366;I've always been part of comedy. One of the things about our family was that if we were reasonably funny with each other, particularly my two brothers and myself, when my father was upset with something you'd want to make sure in some way you made him laugh. Because when he didn't laugh, you were in trouble!;Leslie Nielsen;funny
26367;So what I do now is to pre-empt that by making the up into a virtue, and telling funny stories about how crap I am before people have a chance to notice it for themselves and think maybe I haven't realised.;Emily Mortimer;funny
26368;If you think something's funny, go with that. Most comedians pull jokes from a place of honesty.;Olivia Munn;funny
26369;Funny is funny is funny.;Bob Newhart;funny
26370;I really don't know what makes a comedian. I think it's a family background and environment. Yet if you put the same ingredients in another person, he may never utter a funny line.;Bob Newhart;funny
26371;You can go to a play that is enjoyable because it's funny, and then on the next night you can go to a play that's enjoyable because it's 'disturbing."
I don't happen to have a sense of humor personally, so I don't know what's funny about a character... This happens to be a feature of my life generally.
I was making my living from a joke about my appearance that I didn't understand, and in a way still don't, because when I look in a mirror it doesn't seem funny to me.
For some reason, people find me funny. It's quite hard to define why a thought is funny. It's even harder to define why a person would be funny. It's a word that I can't define at all. But whether I know quite what it is or not, I seem to be it.
We all know funny people who can't get it down on the page - even funny writers who can't get it down on the page.
If it's inappropriate to write about, if there's nothing funny about it, then it's not funny.
It's funny how a chubby kid can just be having fun, and people call it entertainment!
Sometimes, comics will make the observation that it's not jokes that are funny, it's characters that are funny. And isn't that true! That's why I always kill jokes. I'm terrible at them, because I get the joke right, but I can't get the character right, and it just goes down like a lead balloon.
I would call it a comedy variety show. We have some people just doing straight standup. We usually try to have one musical act of sort. So its just people being funny in different ways, not just sketch, not just standup, not just characters, all of those things.
Animals are sentient, intelligent, perceptive, funny and entertaining. We owe them a duty of care as we do to children.
Strange questions are the more interesting ones. Children by and large don't try to trip you up... they want to find out how you do this funny thing that you do... if they've loved a story they love to know how it started.
It's so funny, because right now I'm very tired and my brains a little dead, I tend to get very focused and serious. So, I'm probably coming off a lot more like Scully right now.
I tend to play characters that I can infuse with certain kinds of humour. Even the baddest guy can be funny in his own particular way. I want the audience to engage with the character on some deeper level so that they leave the cinema still thinking about him.
It's a required part of your film history to know who Woody is. His movies are so wonderful, and not just funny but so insightful about human behavior.
I have no idea what I'm going to say when I stand up to give a toast. But I do know that anything I say I find funny.
You know what's funny to me? Attitude.
Some people say funny things, but I say things funny.
We are supposed to enjoy the good stuff now, while we can, with the people we love. Life has a funny way of teaching us that lesson over and over again.
I also think if you're an actor and you can improvise, when you go on an audition and you can improvise you're just a genius. If you can, you know, take a Tide commercial and you can just say one funny line that's not in the commercial they think you're a genius.
Most of the gaffes I've made have not been funny - they've been stupid.
My little dog, he did not get ill. It is so funny that people get ill on a boat and dogs do not.
Who knew Rob Lowe was funny? On 'Parks and Rec,' we've got some of the funniest comedy writers, some of the funniest comedians in the world working there. And if anything, we don't just effuse to one another and be like, 'Oh, Rob Lowe's really funny,' if he wasn't.
The American audience has really opened up to women being A.) funny and B.) kinda crude. 'Bridesmaids' is R-rated, and I think it was a major coup for women to have an R-rated comedy that did really well. Same as 'Bad Teacher.'
It's interesting - I always thought when I was doing more melodramatic stuff like 'Everwood' that the directors were constantly reeling me in and stopping me from being funny.
The key is just to ignore the pain, because physical comedy only works if you see someone get hurt and they aren't actually hurt. If someone gets hit in the face with a bat, falls down, and gets back up, it's funny. If they stay down and their jaw is wired shut in the next scene, it's really tragic and weird. You have to pretend it doesn't hurt.
It's a funny relationship that makeup artists have. I always feel kind of like a dentist. People look at me and think of pain.
I love Charlie, Billy Burke's character. Writing for him is so spectacular, he's so funny and wry and every scene he's in he just takes. There's a scene in 'Eclipse' where Bella tells him she's a virgin, and it's the funniest, most awkward scene I've ever seen on film.
It's funny how I use social media because I don't use it to promote my restaurants that much. I use it for social issues and I think that's what it's for. I do a few things - I mess around with music a lot because that's a passion of mine. If something strikes me and I want to share it, I do.
He is very dry but also very funny... I think people tend to feel odd when I do my act. Unless you are an ironic person, it's not a good place for you to be.
You know, the funny thing about Lorne and that show is that, you can go over one million things, but in a business of bean counters, he still likes to laugh at small things and creates a show around it.
Everybody's funny in different ways.
Marie Antoinette was funny, I'm sure she was just misinterpreted. You know the 'Let them eat cake' line. She seems like she was kind of funny, like a Chelsea Handler or Kathy Griffin type.
You can't make everybody laugh. You gotta just do what you think is funny. Just be obstreperous to everybody.
You know how it is with writing. You just write what you want to write. There's no way to predict what is good or bad. You just do what you think is funny, and either it works or you're finished. It's impossible to predict anything.
I've dated some women who have turned me on to some funny things that are strange for men to actually do, but these things have become part of my process. I think the things I do for my appearance help make me look better. I even colour my hair because I like how it makes me look.
I'm terrible at practical jokes. I do them too well, so they're not funny. I end up saying, 'Oh, no, I'm joking, I'm joking.'
Everybody's funny if you love them.
People don't realize that I'm really funny and I'm an excellent bridge player.
People say funny things all the time during really serious moments in life.
I had a very funny family.
I think I would say 'The King's Speech' is surprisingly funny, in fact the audiences in London, Toronto, LA, New York commented there's more laughter in this film than in most comedies, while it is also a moving tear-jerker with an uplifting ending.
The funny thing is that I write and I act a lot about being Jewish, but I don't really think about it as a regular person.
It's funny, when people talk about the 70s I can tell you the year of every album but when it comes to the later efforts I can't remember the exact years, it's funny isn't it?
I've always found it easier to be funny than to be serious.
And the funny thing is, I've always been an optimist - it's practically a congenital disorder with me.
It's funny how intimate it feels to get a text.
I knew exactly what to do on Alien, it was funny.
I come more to Scotland than I ever used to, so I feel more connected to it, more part of the zeitgeist. You know when you realize you have a choice and I'm choosing my homeland. It's funny: when you get older these things creep up to you.
It's funny, because when you're younger you're in a rush to be 18 or 21 or whatever. But then you hit 30. And now, the days go by like hours. You think, 40, man, this could be the halfway point. It could be the three-quarters point, you know? Who knows?
I'm one of those hovering mothers and I know it's really important to have an independent child, so I'm trying to back off, but it's hard. I love him so much, and he's so funny and cute to me.
I actually was class clown, but I don't know how that happened because I've never been considered an outwardly funny person-as the people in this room will attest.
I actually was class clown, but I don't know how that happened because I've never been considered an outwardly funny person.
Comedy is surprises, so if you're intending to make somebody laugh and they don't laugh, that's funny.
Scream was great for what it was. For a horror film, it was intelligent, it was funny, it took a laugh at itself.
When I was a kid, I wanted to be serious, like Daniel Day-Lewis. No one really dreams of being a comic actor, do they? Now I realise how stupid that is - and it's because comic acting isn't taken seriously enough. It's a discipline. You know instantly - either you're funny and getting the laughs, or you're not.
I think there's something in the fact that it's hard to be good looking and funny. You have to have an oddball quality people have to sympathise with you to find you funny.
One of the things I like about acting is that, in a funny way, I come back to myself.
For a Catholic kid in parochial school, the only way to survive the beatings - by classmates, not the nuns - was to be the funny guy.
It's sort of an action flick. You can't be that funny trying to steal diamonds.
I do find comedy difficult. I don't know why. Maybe I think about it too much. There's a tremendous amount of pressure to be funny.
I think sometimes my humor is extremely dry, and a lot of times I would say things that I thought were very funny but... I have a reputation of - people think of me as a very fundamentalist, humorless fellow.
I don't dismiss the music that I was involved with, I don't think it was a joke, I don't think it was funny or a phase, I don't think it was just something I was doing back then, to me it was who I am. It connects all the way through. I don't distance myself from any of it.
Even as a kid I was never the generator of humor, but I always knew who was funny, who to hang out with.
In Italy, I had an Afro, and a lot of the kids came up and felt my hair. It really was funny. I wish I had understood Italian.
I think a lot comes from having the experience of doing stand-up comedy. It allows you to figure out the psychology of an audience what things are funny and not.
Life is funny and it is interesting how we make it as serious as possible.
It's funny, though, speaking of fathers and sons, because me and John Goodman played father and son, like, five or six years ago in the film 'Death Sentence,' and I got back with him again in 'Inside Llewyn Davis.'
It's funny that I got to do 'On the Road' because the thing that had the biggest impact on me growing up was reading books. I was very inspired by the book and this spirit of Dean Moriarty and how envious we all are of somebody who can be that carefree.
It's funny - I read that women look to chiseled-faced guys for one-night stands, and to round-faced guys for marriage. When I'm rounder in the face, I like to say, 'This is my long-term look.' Or 'This is my wife-and-kids look right here.'
This is the great thing about Northern Ireland. I walk down the street and people stop me and say things like, 'I know you. You're that wee golfer, aren't you?' I say, 'Yeah, that's me.' They say, 'Keep it up, wee man.' It's very funny and that's why I want to stay here as long as possible.
I have an all-Japanese design team, and none of them speak English. So it's often funny and surprising how my ideas end up lost in translation.
The most important thing is to write material that YOU think is funny. If you don't think it's funny, but you're convinced that other people will think it is, well they won't.
When it comes to war, we focus more on the mainstream coverage of the event, rather than the event itself. People dying is never funny. Protest puppets are always funny.
I think that Obama is very cool. And I think he's clever, and I think he can be witty. But I don't think he's funny in either the way that Reagan was funny - or John McCain and Dick Cheney are both funny in that ruthless, kind of mean way.
We want to be funny. We want to make people laugh... We'll do whatever it takes.
But, sooner or later I'd love to do a comedy. I mean I think that, you know, people don't think that that's in my wheelhouse because I've sort of played a lot of dramatic stuff and that's certainly a side of myself that I want at some point in the right context, in the right stuff, that I find really funny.
I love nerds. Comic-Con junkies are the tastemakers of tomorrow. Isn't that funny? The tables have turned.
I think the Cold War works as a great analogy or simile for different kinds of conflict. It's funny, when you look back at it, it's one of the last times that the boundaries were clear. Now, as we see on 'Homeland,' there are no clear boundaries and enemies.
I always just wanted to be funny. I never really planned to be scary.
I started writing when I was 9 years old. I was like this weird kid who would just stay in my room, typing little funny magazines and drawing comic strips.
The token gay character is always so funny and so fantastic. That's happened a lot. Or they're often purely victims.
You can't be funny if you don't have good material.
I have funny bones. If there's ever any kind of tension, I'll always be the one to try and be funny to loosen things up.
It's funny - nowadays people that are famous get chased by paparazzi. They have this fame, but they don't have the money to hide from it.
Being funny with a funny voice is more my comfort zone, a broader character that I try to humanize, a kind of silly or wacky persona that I try to fill in.
You can't be funny for funny's sake. You try to get as outrageous situation as you can but it always has to be believable and based in real character motivations and what people would really do.
It's funny, because I sometimes feel that I'm most creative when I'm pregnant.
Johnny Rotten. He's a big fan of mine. I used to see him out in the audience in England and he'd stand up and holler. He's funny. Smart too, and a nice guy. Don't think he's a jerk because he isn't.
If people want to compete for leadership of a religious group, they can compete in piety. A chilling thought. Or funny.
Back in the '70s, like one of my favorite movies ever was 'The Bad News Bears', and that was a kids' movie, but I don't think of it that way. I think of it as just a great movie because Walter Matthau was so funny and so harsh with those kids.
I just couldn't go back to Suddenly Susan after David Strickland's suicide. I didn't see how we could make the show light and funny any more.
It's funny now how much we look at - whatever you want to call it: art, design, culture stuff, film - online, and how in the online world, you're instantly global.
One can always come up with funny lists and jokes. You know what? I take it back. Not everyone can always come up with funny lists and some jokes. I'm very lucky to have a gift where I can do that pretty ably.
People forget how outcast 'They Might Be Giants' can be. They have a reputation for writing really deft, funny, clever melodies, and they also make a lot of music for kids, which is terrific, but when you see them in concert, they can rock the house.
It's so funny looking back, but my so-called overnight success actually took 15 years. I remember when I didn't have any money, and my only car was mom's Hyundai.
Mmmm... the comedy that matters is the comedy you pull out of thin air. It's a bit like when something funny has happened and you try to explain it to someone else and end up saying, 'You had to be there.'
Plus, I love comic writing. Nothing satisfies me more than finding a funny way to phrase something.
It's funny, because I'm a man of strong opinions and when I make one, I stand by it even if it starts to appear incorrect to me after a while.
I think I have a dark view of the world. I have to make everything funny, otherwise it all seems so sad.
It's sad and upsetting when you see somebody crying hysterically, but at the same time it's real funny.
Well in the book Carrie was my alter ego. In real life, Sarah Jessica and I don't look anything alike. But people do say that we sound alike. Sarah Jessica is an adorable girl and she is very funny.
I think if actors don't think of themselves as funny in real life they think they can't do comedy.
I joke around a lot about the manic times because they're funny. We manics do outrageous things and it is part of our colorful nature.
I like all Jim Carrey films. They're really funny.
Yes, I believe blue material is funny, but if that's all you've got, you're dead in the water. It's not good.
I'm not a very serious person. You know how they say that clowns are very funny in public and are really sad at home? I'm really kind of stupid at home and more serious in public.
It's funny, because I did all of these interviews as soon as I had the baby, and they were asking questions, and I really didn't have an idea of anything, because I was so blurry.
That's a funny thing, fame. People definitely do treat you differently. When you begin to be successful, people say, 'Don't go changing.' Well, that's easy to say, but the fact is, you don't change at all - other people do.
I tell girls all the time that the men that have fallen in love with me, have all fallen during a man repeller stage... funny how life works out like that.
I think it's really important for celebrities to use their power of money and fame to get their voices out there. It's funny to me that we're expected to keep quiet just because of who we are. Why do I lose my right to speak my mind because I'm famous?
I'm not a movie guy, I'm not a TV sitcom guy, but whatever seems to fit and is funny is good for me.
You have to understand the tone of the movie, because if it's supposed to be funny, it can be funny violent like the Home Alone stuff, but you have to really understand the tone of what you're doing and make the action work for that and for the character.
I really love 'Soapdish.' I wish 'Soapdish' had more of a moment because I felt that that is a really strong, funny movie. Kevin Kline is hilarious in that movie.
I don't know. I think it's funny! I think it's funny! I go, what? It's so absurd. I'm alone.
It's funny that all these goths paint their faces with such white make-up and that is the actual colour of my skin, I am that pale!
To this day, I've found that it doesn't matter what a guy looks like if he's really funny. His sense of humor makes him attractive. On the other hand, you don't hear men saying, 'No she's not pretty, but is she ever funny!'
Everything seems fine until you're about 40. Then something is definitely beginning to go wrong. And you look in the mirror with your old habit of thinking, 'While I accept that everyone grows old and dies, it's a funny thing, but I'm an exception to that rule.'
It's funny, but when I arrived in California to start college I was much more interested in becoming a surfer and cruise along in life from one beach to the next. I didn't plan out any huge career for myself.
I was going through a little bit of turbulence in my career. And so, it's funny how turbulence itself will make you hold onto something for security. And so the only thing I knew is trust in the Lord and lean not unto your own heart, in all thy ways acknowledge him and he shall direct thy path.
I actually feel like, for a lot of my career, I wasn't able to show my comedic range. I did a lot of dramas and dramedies. I was on 'E.R.' That's not generally thought of as a funny show.
I have an older sister named Haley and she wanted to be an actress. So I wanted to be an actress. It's really funny the way that some people don't give kids enough credit for like really being driven, and really wanting to do things so badly.
If I'm in something funny, I like to try and find some kind of serious line in it that people can relate to.
If you could cross a lion and a monkey, that's what I'd be, because monkeys are funny and lions are strong.
I'm good at coming up with wacky characters and funny dialogue.
Comedy clubs can be brutal. Those people are for real, and if you aren't funny, they aren't laughing. They don't care who you are.
Gotta stay in the gym, stay funny, stay sharp. I just love working.
I think it's actually a misperception that I am a comedic actress. I do more drama than comedy but very little of it has been seen. When you are in big funny movies and they do well and your little part in it kind of explodes people perceive you as a comedian.
I don't think of myself as a comedian, but as an artist, a scientist and chemist who just happens to be funny. I started doing stand-up to add another level to my game. I feel that I'm a young rookie with a veteran's skill.
I feel cheesy when I see 'Silver Spoons.' Some of it was funny, but some of it was just cheese! My kids love it, but I look at it and cringe.
I've got to get on myself to be sharp, funny and loose.
Sometimes I am so dry that people don't know I'm kidding and think I'm being serious. I enjoy this because their reactions are often funny.
I would love to play 'Funny Girl' or 'Evita,' but I idolize the women who have played those parts. I don't know if there needs to be another version of those shows.
I understand a woman who validates herself by getting attention from the opposite sex. I have a friend who is that to a T... Doesn't mean she isn't a good person. That's a funny character to play.
At school I was very shy. I wasn't funny really.
I love weird or funny or beautiful sentences Joy Williams could write a microwave-oven manual and I'm sure I'd love it, because the sentences would be tuned up like music.
I remember listening to the radio as a kid and finding that the songs always made me feel more peaceful. Funny, but the more hurtin' the music was, the better it made me feel. I think of that now when I write my songs. I may not be feelin' the blues myself, but I'm writing them for other people who have a hard life.
What was funny if you were there is that we were all immensely sophisticated people who knew exactly what she was going to say and we're chatting away, nice to see you.
I'm so unprofessional on set it's not even funny.
It's funny that it all becomes about clothes. It's bizarre. You work your butt off and then you win an award and it's all about your dress. You can't get away from it.
I follow the most random people on Twitter. I follow famous people like Khloe Kardashian, who surprisingly makes really funny tweets all the time.
I was not particularly bright, I wasn't very athletic, I was a little too tall, odd, funny looking, I was just really weird as a kid.
I think it's so funny when people think they can't control a movie star. They can. We're just women, you know.
I always approach comedy roles pretending they aren't funny.
I feel funny about owning art. I don't really want to say: 'Wow, come and see my Monet - it's in a dark room at the bottom of my cellar.'
I love Mikhail Bulgakov. He is very original and takes the story to unexpected places. I didn't realise political writing could be so funny.
And there's a visceral fun in watching Team America and making it, like taking a puppet and throwing it against the wall. Because it's not CG, there's something funny about it.
So often, I read scripts and am like, 'This would never happen in real life. It's not trying to be funny. It's trying to be serious.'
Acting is all about big hair and funny props... All the great actors knew it. Olivier knew it, Brando knew it.
Billy Crystal knows how to make people laugh. He's got 30 years on stage... there's no telling him what's funny.
I'm not a believer in the pratfall. I don't think it's funny just to have someone fall down.
They did that little thing on South Park, and they mentioned my name and had a character of me judging a Halloween contest. It was really funny.That made me the coolest aunt on earth.
There's a constant flow of child actors. It's kind of funny to watch the new crew come through. I think, You poor little things. You're going to have to struggle for a long time.
It's funny, growing up there was never anybody around me with any kind of artistic bent.
When I was in college, I was in the theater department, which for anyone who has been involved in any kind of theater program, you know that it's really wacky and tight-knit, a real family. Me and my good friends from college would do random shows and plays that were sometimes serious, but most of the time really goofy and funny.
With Portlandia, I don't think our intention is always to find something funny. Sometimes the humor comes from taking something really seriously. We're okay with making somebody feel uncomfortable or uneasy.
I got to play with Nintendo's Wii, yes it's a funny name and not very revolutionary but it was fun whipping your arms around.
Jon Stewart hires people that he thinks are funny. That's it. That's the only requirement.
It is possible in this world to be pretty and funny and successful all at the same time.
I think it's always funny when somebody thinks you're going to do something super sexy and then you don't.
Sometimes in the most tragic situation, something just profoundly funny happens.
And I think that being able to make people laugh and write a book that's funny makes the information go down a lot easier and it makes it a lot more fun to read, easier to understand, and often stronger. So there's all kinds of advantages to it.
It is funny what a year can do.
It's funny, in a way the actor is a writer. It's not like the two things are so separate as to be like apples and oranges. The writer and the actor are one.
Stealing, you'll go far in life. Actually, there is something funny about getting away with it.
Movies don't look hard, but figuring it out, getting the shape of it, getting everybody's character right and having it be funny, make sense and be romantic, it's creating a puzzle. Yes, having been a writer for so long, I have an awareness of when things are going awry, but it doesn't mean I know how to fix them.
I can do comedy, so people want me to do that, but the other side of comedy is depression. Deep, deep depression is the flip side of comedy. Casting agents don't realize it but in order to be funny you have to have that other side.
What's funny is my husband doesn't have any tattoos at all, so he must be the very conservative one.
I watched a lot of silent directors who were absolutely great like John Ford and Fritz Lang, Tod Browning, and also some very modern directors like The Coen Brothers. The directors take the freedom within their own movies to be melodramatic or funny when they chose to be. They do whatever they want and they don't care about the genre.
What I fell in love with as a child was 'My Fair Lady,' 'Funny Face,' 'American in Paris,' and 'Singin' in the Rain.' Just perfect movies to me and I was dancing. I started ballet when I was three. And I fell in love with those movies and fell in love with Audrey Hepburn and Leslie Caron.
My job is mostly to entertain and be funny.
Sometimes you have to take the focus off of you and put it on someone else and it's funny what you can accomplish and how much strength you really have.
I don't think I was funny until college. I lived with some Harvard MD/PhD students - they were so smart, and what I contributed to the house was, I was the funny one.
When I was younger I wanted to be a big movie star who'd get to be funny on talk shows and then I wanted to retire and write science fiction.
When you are not treated seriously, you develop comically. Its sense of oneself is so fractured and fragile that it's like the picked-on kid who has to become funny.
I got pregnant at 40 by surprise. It's funny, because when we found out we were pregnant, I said, 'Okay, let's experience that.' You just have to just go with it because it's rare.
Billy is a funny, cheeky, lovely boy and I love being with him. Parenthood is terrifying though. I can barely walk past a building without panicking that it's going to collapse on his head.
The funny thing is the songs that people think are about me probably aren't. And the songs that are probably are the ones they wouldn't think... so that's where it kind of is funny.
Funny, I don't feel any more powerful today than yesterday.
The Islam of the 18th, 19th and first half of the 20th century was a poor thing. Nobody bothered about it. Islam was that funny sort of pure system of beliefs that depressed people in the Middle East held as their religion.
Most of my ideas just come out funny.
Sometimes laughing isn't the best judge of what's funny, 'cause I think there's a lot of things that are really funny that don't make you laugh, that don't make you physically, audibly make a noise, but is something that is much more powerful than that.
There is nothing funny about a well-adjusted, intelligent person making the right choices.
I'm always in situations where you can't be funny, and yet I want to do it anyway.
It's a funny thing about me. I don't have any interest in food most of the time now, although when I was a kid I was always hungry.
I wasn't even 20 at the time, but it taught me something about drugs. They can take a good man, a warm, funny, loving family man, and turn him into a loser and worse.
I believe, in a funny way, the job of the novelist is to be out there on the fringes and speaking for an experience that has not really been spoken for.
Funny, how moms can tell you what to do no matter how old or big you are.
I didn't grow up identifying with beauty. I grew up thinking I could be smart and funny - those are the things I got feedback on.
Inappropriateness is funny to me. Rudeness is hilarious.
I think if they put a laugh track on 'Intervention,' it would be funny.
We all know how funny Morrissey is. Actually, you know what? I say that sarcastically. His songs are some of the funniest songs I've ever heard in my life. I mean, really. I mean, not that the 'Girlfriend in a Coma' is, like, really funny.
When I was in high school I used to sit by myself in the cafeteria - not necessarily by choice - but I thought it was funny to talk to people that weren't there.
Laughter is involuntary. If it's funny you laugh.
What's funny about that is when I was writing Twilight just for myself and not thinking of it as a book, I was not thinking about publishing, and yet at the same time I was casting it in my head. Because when I read books, I see them very visually.
I auditioned for a solo in church and got it. I was about seven and I sang a song called, 'Jesus, I Heard You Had a Big House' and I remember people standing up at the end and me thinking, 'Oh, I think I'm going to like this.' That's how it all began. Sounds funny to say you got your start in church, but I did.
It's so different when you change your hair color, you're treated so differently. It's a very funny experience. It's fun - I love changing up my hair.
I'm a big fan of certain new acts. I love any genre of music, and I think it's really great to see that there are new artists coming through. It's kinda funny to think that I'm like the old man on campus now. But I'm really happy for groups like One Direction. I think they're really good guys.
When I turned about 12 or 13, I realised that being funny wasn't about remembering jokes. It was about creating them.
They're great girls. They're very funny, they're very smart, they're fun to be with. They're very lively, as I think people can tell. And you know, they're very confident girls.
And regardless of the fact that in this country, certainly in the arts, we treat comedy as a second-class citizen, I've never thought of it that way. I've always thought it to be important. The last time I looked, the Greeks were holding up two masks. I've always thought of it not only as having equal value, but as the craft of it, being funny.
It's funny, but we were living on this small island off the coast of Charleston, South Carolina when I was 9.
I have no agenda except to be funny. Neither I or the writers profess to offer any worldly wisdom.
In my experience, it's not just that serious books get a hearing on comedy shows. But serious books get a serious hearing, as well as a funny one, on comedy shows.
It's a bit like school camp, shooting a film. Everyone's on heat. It's a strange energy. It's full of adrenalin. I funnel my excess energy in funny little ways. I do a lot of dancing in my trailer. I love music.
Here's the funny thing about the response I've been aware of to my dating famous people: It's been very negative. I'm either not good-looking enough, not a good enough actor or not successful enough for these people.
I like the hot-cold, the sugar-salt, being able to play over-the-top and dramatic things - in the same film. Just as in my life, I can be very funny and at other times almost extinguished.
I'm an off-road racecar driver. And I think every woman in my life has told me that's not a sensible hobby. But when I was growing, even more than I wanted to be funny, I wanted to be a racecar driver. That's all I thought about. I worked for a race team when I was 15 and I traveled with them.
Kyle Baker's work is really funny, but it's also got a very clear vision.
It's funny: I've been very successful and done a lot of films, and I don't really have an agent - I don't really pursue jobs, I let people come to me.
If you look at the game and everything, it's not quite like looking at an animated film, because that's total character. This, this is really movement, but it's got funny little things if you look for the humor. They're actually getting to the character.
It's a funny thing because you look at the careers of other filmmakers, and you see them sort of slow down, and you realize, maybe this becomes harder to do as you get older. That's sort of a cautionary thing. I hope it doesn't happen to me.
There's a darkness under 'The Hangover' because ultimately there's a missing person and it's not really that funny. There's a sort of darkness under it that I love, and still people are laughing as hard if not harder than they did in 'Old School.'
I think people like comedies and I think concept driven comedies seem to be working when it's a clear concept and you deliver funny stuff.
Now that I'm more mature, in a funny way, I can even appreciate that I've bad to become more aware of my body. Since I've chosen acting as my career, I have to keep my weight down anyway-I've been used to it for years, so it's no problem. And there's nothing I can't do.
Comedy is so subjective. You could be in a room with 400 people laughing at a joke and you could just not think it's funny. You're just sitting there like, 'Am I in the twilight zone? Why is everyone laughing?' It's such a personal thing. People have such a personal visceral response to comedy.
I would do it today because the thing that appealed to me was not necessarily the mechanics of the robot, but it was his personality and how funny and charming he was.
You know, if I started worrying about what the critics think, I'd never make another comedy. You couldn't pick a less funny group than critics - you couldn't find a more bitter group of people!
When I was a kid I had this funny blonde hair and everyone called me 'Chick' because I looked like Tweety Bird.
I think that 'Hangover II' is as funny as 'The Hangover I,' honest to God, but I think that it's a little bit darker, and the stakes are a little bit higher.
I don't think know if anything's going to translate anywhere. You're making a movie, you hope it's going to be funny, you can't think about how it's going to go over.
If you can find the line between sympathetic and creepy, you have reached a very funny area.
I don't think the public is dying to see me necessarily be funny all the time.
I love New York. I was sad, depressed and incredibly moved by our fellow countrymen and what they've done. I wanted to give people a chance to see something funny, have a distraction.
Jim Carrey, a comic genius, has a harder time overcoming the public's desire for him to be funny simply because he's so good at it.
If you take a bunch of superstars and put them in a room where they don't have their assistants and entourage, it's funny to see what happens.
Because death and illness are the most horrible things in life, of course that's where the most absurdly funny things are going to happen.
I think one of the basic tasks in life - one of the nice things we can do for each other - is to take things that are horrible and scary and make them acceptable and less frightening and, if possible, funny. It feels great to succeed at that.
I appreciate humor so much, but I'm actually not a funny girl.
During the Great Depression, when people laughed their worries disappeared. Audiences loved these funny men. I decided to become one.
I remember interviewing someone I actually felt bad for, and therefore didn't want to take an ironic stance against him. It actually turned out to be a really funny piece.
I don't think my judgment is that good. I don't know what is funny.
It's funny, the hardest thing to do is to make something look like it's fast, loose and improvised, and get somebody to laugh.
Sometimes we have to actually say, I think you're really funny, but none of your jokes are going to make it on the air. So just answer my questions. Seriously.
I'm not a comedian. I'm an actor who just happens to be funny on occasion.
The prospects for a coherent, hilarious and consistent American comedy seem to lessen every year, as the poor waterlogged, gassy corpse called 'Evan Almighty' proved when it floated ashore recently. So there's a temptation to think too highly of Robin Williams's uneven but occasionally funny 'License to Wed.'
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.
It is very important to generate a good attitude, a good heart, as much as possible. From this, happiness in both the short term and the long term for both yourself and others will come.
If people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed.
Despite everything, I believe that people are really good at heart.
When I do good, I feel good. When I do bad, I feel bad. That's my religion.
We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the vitriolic words and actions of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people.
We shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do.
Good people do not need laws to tell them to act responsibly, while bad people will find a way around the laws.
There has to be evil so that good can prove its purity above it.
The good times of today, are the sad thoughts of tomorrow.
It is better to be beautiful than to be good. But... it is better to be good than to be ugly.
A true friend is someone who thinks that you are a good egg even though he knows that you are slightly cracked.
I can live for two months on a good compliment.
There is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so.
A man who is good enough to shed his blood for the country is good enough to be given a square deal afterwards.
But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven for he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
The more we come out and do good to others, the more our hearts will be purified, and God will be in them.
It takes many good deeds to build a good reputation, and only one bad one to lose it.
When I'm good, I'm very good. But when I'm bad I'm better.
Honest disagreement is often a good sign of progress.
Don't be afraid to give up the good to go for the great.
Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad judgment.
If you can't make it good, at least make it look good.
Every man is guilty of all the good he did not do.
Associate yourself with people of good quality, for it is better to be alone than in bad company.
A man is called selfish not for pursuing his own good, but for neglecting his neighbor's.
You're in pretty good shape for the shape you are in.
Good things happen to those who hustle.
Not only must we be good, but we must also be good for something.
The true measure of a man is how he treats someone who can do him absolutely no good.
If you don't think every day is a good day, just try missing one.
It takes a great man to be a good listener.
Learn to... be what you are, and learn to resign with a good grace all that you are not.
An inexhaustible good nature is one of the most precious gifts of heaven, spreading itself like oil over the troubled sea of thought, and keeping the mind smooth and equable in the roughest weather.
On the whole, human beings want to be good, but not too good, and not quite all the time.
Good advice is something a man gives when he is too old to set a bad example.
It's good to shut up sometimes.
It is not good to be too free. It is not good to have everything one wants.
Less is only more where more is no good.
Acorns were good until bread was found.
The omission of good is no less reprehensible than the commission of evil.
What the people want is very simple - they want an America as good as its promise.
Laughter is the sensation of feeling good all over and showing it principally in one place.
I believe that we parents must encourage our children to become educated, so they can get into a good college that we cannot afford.
Good leaders make people feel that they're at the very heart of things, not at the periphery.
Only the young die good.
I have made good judgments in the past. I have made good judgments in the future.
That which is striking and beautiful is not always good, but that which is good is always beautiful.
Good copy can't be written with tongue in cheek, written just for a living. You've got to believe in the product.
A good scare is worth more to a man than good advice.
Be sweet, be good, and honest always.
A man has to live with himself, and he should see to it that he always has good company.
He who bestows his goods upon the poor shall have as much again, and ten times more.
They're only truly great who are truly good.
We must develop and maintain the capacity to forgive. He who is devoid of the power to forgive is devoid of the power to love. There is some good in the worst of us and some evil in the best of us. When we discover this, we are less prone to hate our enemies.
For beautiful eyes, look for the good in others for beautiful lips, speak only words of kindness and for poise, walk with the knowledge that you are never alone.
You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.
I feel sorry for people who don't drink. When they wake up in the morning, that's as good as they're going to feel all day.
To enjoy good health, to bring true happiness to one's family, to bring peace to all, one must first discipline and control one's own mind. If a man can control his mind he can find the way to Enlightenment, and all wisdom and virtue will naturally come to him.
One good thing about music, when it hits you, you feel no pain.
History will have to record that the greatest tragedy of this period of social transition was not the strident clamor of the bad people, but the appalling silence of the good people.
A wise and frugal Government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government, and this is necessary to close the circlue of our felicities.
By all means, marry. If you get a good wife, you'll become happy if you get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher.
A man who was completely innocent, offered himself as a sacrifice for the good of others, including his enemies, and became the ransom of the world. It was a perfect act.
A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination.
However many holy words you read, however many you speak, what good will they do you if you do not act on upon them?
Let him who would enjoy a good future waste none of his present.
A good wife is one who serves her husband in the morning like a mother does, loves him in the day like a sister does and pleases him like a prostitute in the night.
For every good reason there is to lie, there is a better reason to tell the truth.
The first question which the priest and the Levite asked was: 'If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?' But... the good Samaritan reversed the question: 'If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?'
Friends and good manners will carry you where money won't go.
It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love. This is how the whole scheme of things works. All good things are difficult to achieve and bad things are very easy to get.
To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear.
The very atmosphere of firearms anywhere and everywhere restrains evil interference - they deserve a place of honor with all that's good.
The ultimate tragedy is not the oppression and cruelty by the bad people but the silence over that by the good people.
A good marriage would be between a blind wife and a deaf husband.
An empty stomach is not a good political adviser.
No man succeeds without a good woman behind him. Wife or mother, if it is both, he is twice blessed indeed.
It is wonderful how much time good people spend fighting the devil. If they would only expend the same amount of energy loving their fellow men, the devil would die in his own tracks of ennui.
Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will.
He who can no longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead his eyes are closed.
Just as treasures are uncovered from the earth, so virtue appears from good deeds, and wisdom appears from a pure and peaceful mind. To walk safely through the maze of human life, one needs the light of wisdom and the guidance of virtue.
Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.
Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.
I am not interested in power for power's sake, but I'm interested in power that is moral, that is right and that is good.
I firmly believe that any man's finest hour, the greatest fulfillment of all that he holds dear, is that moment when he has worked his heart out in a good cause and lies exhausted on the field of battle - victorious.
You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and its good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.
I once had a rose named after me and I was very flattered. But I was not pleased to read the description in the catalogue: no good in a bed, but fine up against a wall.
I do not believe in the God of theology who rewards good and punishes evil.
Whatever words we utter should be chosen with care for people will hear them and be influenced by them for good or ill.
I do believe we're all connected. I do believe in positive energy. I do believe in the power of prayer. I do believe in putting good out into the world. And I believe in taking care of each other.
No man is good enough to govern another man without the other's consent.
Love is friendship that has caught fire. It is quiet understanding, mutual confidence, sharing and forgiving. It is loyalty through good and bad times. It settles for less than perfection and makes allowances for human weaknesses.
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.
When one has the feeling of dislike for evil, when one feels tranquil, one finds pleasure in listening to good teachings when one has these feelings and appreciates them, one is free of fear.
Whatever you are, be a good one.
Virtue is persecuted more by the wicked than it is loved by the good.
If I am walking with two other men, each of them will serve as my teacher. I will pick out the good points of the one and imitate them, and the bad points of the other and correct them in myself.
Our prayers should be for blessings in general, for God knows best what is good for us.
The virtues, like the Muses, are always seen in groups. A good principle was never found solitary in any breast.
I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
If you have a particular faith or religion, that is good. But you can survive without it.
An armed society is a polite society. Manners are good when one may have to back up his acts with his life.
I'm a true believer in karma. You get what you give, whether it's bad or good.
Of all tyrannies a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive.
All I'm trying to do is survive and make good out of the dirty, nasty, unbelievable lifestyle that they gave me.
And this, our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Discourage litigation. Persuade your neighbors to compromise whenever you can. As a peacemaker the lawyer has superior opportunity of being a good man. There will still be business enough.
He that is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else.
So long as the memory of certain beloved friends lives in my heart, I shall say that life is good.
Every good relationship, especially marriage, is based on respect. If it's not based on respect, nothing that appears to be good will last very long.
Concentrated power is not rendered harmless by the good intentions of those who create it.
Associate with men of good quality if you esteem your own reputation for it is better to be alone than in bad company.
Be true to yourself, help others, make each day your masterpiece, make friendship a fine art, drink deeply from good books - especially the Bible, build a shelter against a rainy day, give thanks for your blessings and pray for guidance every day.
Keep a good attitude and do the right thing even when it's hard. When you do that you are passing the test. And God promises you your marked moments are on their way.
Any book that helps a child to form a habit of reading, to make reading one of his deep and continuing needs, is good for him.
Truthful words are not beautiful beautiful words are not truthful. Good words are not persuasive persuasive words are not good.
The evil that men do lives after them the good is oft interred with their bones.
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.
Treat those who are good with goodness, and also treat those who are not good with goodness. Thus goodness is attained. Be honest to those who are honest, and be also honest to those who are not honest. Thus honesty is attained.
It's good sportsmanship to not pick up lost golf balls while they are still rolling.
Learn to say 'no' to the good so you can say 'yes' to the best.
True friendship multiplies the good in life and divides its evils. Strive to have friends, for life without friends is like life on a desert island... to find one real friend in a lifetime is good fortune to keep him is a blessing.
Golf is a good walk spoiled.
The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object of good government.
My advice to you is get married: if you find a good wife you'll be happy if not, you'll become a philosopher.
If money help a man to do good to others, it is of some value but if not, it is simply a mass of evil, and the sooner it is got rid of, the better.
A good conscience is a continual Christmas.
Even when a person has all of life's comforts - good food, good shelter, a companion - he or she can still become unhappy when encountering a tragic situation.
A good objective of leadership is to help those who are doing poorly to do well and to help those who are doing well to do even better.
Thunder is good, thunder is impressive but it is lightning that does the work.
A man is born alone and dies alone and he experiences the good and bad consequences of his karma alone and he goes alone to hell or the Supreme abode.
Sunshine is delicious, rain is refreshing, wind braces us up, snow is exhilarating there is really no such thing as bad weather, only different kinds of good weather.
There is no such thing as a good tax.
The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large.
There is no more lovely, friendly and charming relationship, communion or company than a good marriage.
Climb the mountains and get their good tidings.
The important thing is that men should have a purpose in life. It should be something useful, something good.
It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious.
A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving.
Set your sights high, the higher the better. Expect the most wonderful things to happen, not in the future but right now. Realize that nothing is too good. Allow absolutely nothing to hamper you or hold you up in any way.
Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person.
The man who does not read good books has no advantage over the man who cannot read them.
I object to violence because when it appears to do good, the good is only temporary the evil it does is permanent.
An overflow of good converts to bad.
Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example.
The good news is that, according to the Obama administration, the rich will pay for everything. The bad news is that, according to the Obama administration, you're rich.
It usually takes me more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech.
A sense of humor... is needed armor. Joy in one's heart and some laughter on one's lips is a sign that the person down deep has a pretty good grasp of life.
There are several good protections against temptation, but the surest is cowardice.
Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow, that I shall say good night till it be morrow.
I intend to live forever. So far, so good.
To be good is noble but to show others how to be good is nobler and no trouble.
Prophesy is a good line of business, but it is full of risks.
What a good thing Adam had. When he said a good thing he knew nobody had said it before.
How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
A conservative is a man with two perfectly good legs who, however, has never learned how to walk forward.
Drugs are a waste of time. They destroy your memory and your self-respect and everything that goes along with with your self-esteem. They're no good at all.
I am convinced that material things can contribute a lot to making one's life pleasant, but, basically, if you do not have very good friends and relatives who matter to you, life will be really empty and sad and material things cease to be important.
It is a good thing for an uneducated man to read books of quotations.
Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt.
Great and good are seldom the same man.
For good or for ill, air mastery is today the supreme expression of military power and fleets and armies, however vital and important, must accept a subordinate rank.
I believe that every human mind feels pleasure in doing good to another.
Those who can win a war well can rarely make a good peace and those who could make a good peace would never have won the war.
Every day we should hear at least one little song, read one good poem, see one exquisite picture, and, if possible, speak a few sensible words.
Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better.
Life is never fair, and perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not.
What do I think of Western civilization? I think it would be a very good idea.
The good man is the friend of all living things.
Life consists not in holding good cards but in playing those you hold well.
It takes time to persuade men to do even what is for their own good.
I always pass on good advice. It is the only thing to do with it. It is never of any use to oneself.
In truth, politeness is artificial good humor, it covers the natural want of it, and ends by rendering habitual a substitute nearly equivalent to the real virtue.
Jealousy is both reasonable and belongs to reasonable men, while envy is base and belongs to the base, for the one makes himself get good things by jealousy, while the other does not allow his neighbour to have them through envy.
No man is so foolish but he may sometimes give another good counsel, and no man so wise that he may not easily err if he takes no other counsel than his own. He that is taught only by himself has a fool for a master.
Sometimes I think my husband is so amazing that I don't know why he's with me. I don't know whether I'm good enough. But if I make him happy, then I'm everything I want to be.
If you pretend to be good, the world takes you very seriously. If you pretend to be bad, it doesn't. Such is the astounding stupidity of optimism.
I find that he is happiest of whom the world says least, good or bad.
The Creator has not thought proper to mark those in the forehead who are of stuff to make good generals. We are first, therefore, to seek them blindfold, and then let them learn the trade at the expense of great losses.
Talking isn't doing. It is a kind of good deed to say well and yet words are not deeds.
The good opinion of mankind, like the lever of Archimedes, with the given fulcrum, moves the world.
To wear your heart on your sleeve isn't a very good plan you should wear it inside, where it functions best.
I look only to the good qualities of men. Not being faultless myself, I won't presume to probe into the faults of others.
Husbands are chiefly good as lovers when they are betraying their wives.
It's like gambling somehow. You go out for a night of drinking and you don't know where your going to end up the next day. It could work out good or it could be disastrous. It's like the throw of the dice.
A truly good book teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay it down, and commence living on its hint. What I began by reading, I must finish by acting.
Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.
A policy is a temporary creed liable to be changed, but while it holds good it has got to be pursued with apostolic zeal.
Since you get more joy out of giving joy to others, you should put a good deal of thought into the happiness that you are able to give.
I had a stick of CareFree gum, but it didn't work. I felt pretty good while I was blowing that bubble, but as soon as the gum lost its flavor, I was back to pondering my mortality.
The World is my country, all mankind are my brethren, and to do good is my religion.
The only advantage of not being too good a housekeeper is that your guests are so pleased to feel how very much better they are.
Your net worth to the world is usually determined by what remains after your bad habits are subtracted from your good ones.
If one plays good music, people don't listen and if one plays bad music people don't talk.
Arguments are extremely vulgar, for everyone in good society holds exactly the same opinion.
A good decision is based on knowledge and not on numbers.
Bad times have a scientific value. These are occasions a good learner would not miss.
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottage princes' palaces.
The only thing to do with good advice is to pass it on. It is never of any use to oneself.
When good Americans die they go to Paris.
Non-cooperation with evil is as much a duty as is cooperation with good.
I know in my heart that man is good. That what is right will always eventually triumph. And there's purpose and worth to each and every life.
Great ambition is the passion of a great character. Those endowed with it may perform very good or very bad acts. All depends on the principles which direct them.
The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily. That is what fiction means.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keeps as watchman to my heart.
One can survive everything, nowadays, except death, and live down everything except a good reputation.
A good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan executed next week.
There is no principle worth the name if it is not wholly good.
Anybody can be good in the country. There are no temptations there.
Well, if Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear.
If there's any message to my work, it is ultimately that it's OK to be different, that it's good to be different, that we should question ourselves before we pass judgment on someone who looks different, behaves different, talks different, is a different color.
Commitment is a big part of what I am and what I believe. How committed are you to winning? How committed are you to being a good friend? To being trustworthy? To being successful? How committed are you to being a good father, a good teammate, a good role model? There's that moment every morning when you look in the mirror: Are you committed, or are you not?
Old age, believe me, is a good and pleasant thing. It is true you are gently shouldered off the stage, but then you are given such a comfortable front stall as spectator.
In modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good platitude. It makes the whole world kin.
Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something.
Paris is always a good idea.
I hope everyone that is reading this is having a really good day. And if you are not, just know that in every new minute that passes you have an opportunity to change that.
Silence is golden when you can't think of a good answer.
About morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.
A good thing to remember is somebody's got it a lot worse than we do.
How true Daddy's words were when he said: all children must look after their own upbringing. Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.
In spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart. I simply can't build up my hopes on a foundation consisting of confusion, misery and death.
Be not simply good - be good for something.
Do good to your friends to keep them, to your enemies to win them.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
All good is hard. All evil is easy. Dying, losing, cheating, and mediocrity is easy. Stay away from easy.
Speak ill of no man, but speak all the good you know of everybody.
Anger is never without a reason, but seldom with a good one.
Of all that is good, sublimity is supreme. Succeeding is the coming together of all that is beautiful. Furtherance is the agreement of all that is just. Perseverance is the foundation of all actions.
Democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.
Good habits formed at youth make all the difference.
I believe in Karma. If the good is sown, the good is collected. When positive things are made, that returns well.
When one has not had a good father, one must create one.
He who speaks without modesty will find it difficult to make his words good.
Those disputing, contradicting, and confuting people are generally unfortunate in their affairs. They get victory, sometimes, but they never get good will, which would be of more use to them.
It doesn't do good to open doors for someone who doesn't have the price to get in. If he has the price, he may not need the laws. There is no law saying the Negro has to live in Harlem or Watts.
There was never a good war, or a bad peace.
The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.
There are three kinds of intelligence: one kind understands things for itself, the other appreciates what others can understand, the third understands neither for itself nor through others. This first kind is excellent, the second good, and the third kind useless.
Appreciation is the highest form of prayer, for it acknowledges the presence of good wherever you shine the light of your thankful thoughts.
Today was good. Today was fun. Tomorrow is another one.
Happiness is the only good. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is here. The way to be happy is to make others so.
The TV business is uglier than most things. It is normally perceived as some kind of cruel and shallow money trench through the heart of the journalism industry, a long plastic hallway where thieves and pimps run free and good men die like dogs, for no good reason.
There is no kind of dishonesty into which otherwise good people more easily and frequently fall than that of defrauding the government.
Each year one vicious habit discarded, in time might make the worst of us good.
If you go to work on your goals, your goals will go to work on you. If you go to work on your plan, your plan will go to work on you. Whatever good things we build end up building us.
Human felicity is produced not as much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen as by little advantages that occur every day.
Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions in others.
Sex education may be a good idea in the schools, but I don't believe the kids should be given homework.
The pay is good and I can walk to work.
Many foxes grow gray but few grow good.
I know you've heard it a thousand times before. But it's true - hard work pays off. If you want to be good, you have to practice, practice, practice. If you don't love something, then don't do it.
A good character is the best tombstone. Those who loved you and were helped by you will remember you when forget-me-nots have withered. Carve your name on hearts, not on marble.
Love is the joy of the good, the wonder of the wise, the amazement of the Gods.
I like someone who is a little crazy but coming from a good place. I think scars are sexy because it means you made a mistake that led to a mess.
A good indignation brings out all one's powers.
Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued.
Be true to the game, because the game will be true to you. If you try to shortcut the game, then the game will shortcut you. If you put forth the effort, good things will be bestowed upon you. That's truly about the game, and in some ways that's about life too.
Happiness is nothing more than good health and a bad memory.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good be good for something.
A good husband is never the first to go to sleep at night or the last to awake in the morning.
Don't believe your friends when they ask you to be honest with them. All they really want is to be maintained in the good opinion they have of themselves.
This time, like all times, is a very good one, if we but know what to do with it.
Doing well is the result of doing good. That's what capitalism is all about.
I have thought a sufficient measure of civilization is the influence of good women.
Observe good faith and justice toward all nations. Cultivate peace and harmony with all.
Every actual State is corrupt. Good men must not obey laws too well.
Friendship, like the immortality of the soul, is too good to be believed.
She is a friend of mind. She gather me, man. The pieces I am, she gather them and give them back to me in all the right order. It's good, you know, when you got a woman who is a friend of your mind.
I do not concern myself with gods and spirits either good or evil nor do I serve any.
Good men must not obey the laws too well.
All credibility, all good conscience, all evidence of truth come only from the senses.
The sage does not hoard. The more he helps others, the more he benefits himself, The more he gives to others, the more he gets himself. The Way of Heaven does one good but never does one harm. The Way of the sage is to act but not to compete.
Perfect friendship is the friendship of men who are good, and alike in excellence for these wish well alike to each other qua good, and they are good in themselves.
Show me a good loser, and I'll show you a loser.
Every art and every inquiry, and similarly every action and choice, is thought to aim at some good and for this reason the good has rightly been declared to be that at which all things aim.
As individuals, people are inherently good. I have a somewhat more pessimistic view of people in groups. And I remain extremely concerned when I see what's happening in our country, which is in many ways the luckiest place in the world. We don't seem to be excited about making our country a better place for our kids.
A man always has two reasons for doing anything: a good reason and the real reason.
It is a fact often observed, that men have written good verses under the inspiration of passion, who cannot write well under other circumstances.
A good writer possesses not only his own spirit but also the spirit of his friends.
Don't follow any advice, no matter how good, until you feel as deeply in your spirit as you think in your mind that the counsel is wise.
The greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own.
He who is to be a good ruler must have first been ruled.
The wicked leader is he who the people despise. The good leader is he who the people revere. The great leader is he who the people say, 'We did it ourselves.'
It is not enough to have a good mind the main thing is to use it well.
A good hockey player plays where the puck is. A great hockey player plays where the puck is going to be.
Therefore, the good of man must be the end of the science of politics.
Sex without love is a meaningless experience, but as far as meaningless experiences go its pretty damn good.
Little League baseball is a very good thing because it keeps the parents off the streets.
Technology is nothing. What's important is that you have a faith in people, that they're basically good and smart, and if you give them tools, they'll do wonderful things with them.
The only thing that could spoil a day was people. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself.
We are persuaded that good Christians will always be good citizens, and that where righteousness prevails among individuals the Nation will be great and happy. Thus while just government protects all in their religious rights, true religion affords to government it's surest support.
The best preparation for good work tomorrow is to do good work today.
The state comes into existence for the sake of life and continues to exist for the sake of good life.
It's true, Christmas can feel like a lot of work, particularly for mothers. But when you look back on all the Christmases in your life, you'll find you've created family traditions and lasting memories. Those memories, good and bad, are really what help to keep a family together over the long haul.
I do not know what the spirit of a philosopher could more wish to be than a good dancer. For the dance is his ideal, also his fine art, finally also the only kind of piety he knows, his 'divine service.'
A good leader can engage in a debate frankly and thoroughly, knowing that at the end he and the other side must be closer, and thus emerge stronger. You don't have that idea when you are arrogant, superficial, and uninformed.
If you're not willing to work hard, let someone else do it. I'd rather be with someone who does a horrible job, but gives 110% than with someone who does a good job and gives 60%.
What good is it being Marilyn Monroe? Why can't I just be an ordinary woman?
Fame is like caviar, you know - it's good to have caviar but not when you have it at every meal.
What good am I? I can't have kids. I can't cook. I've been divorced three times. Who would want me?
I think one of the basic reasons men make good friends is that they can make up their minds quickly.
What's the good of drawing in the next breath if all you do is let it out and draw in another?
Experts on romance say for a happy marriage there has to be more than a passionate love. For a lasting union, they insist, there must be a genuine liking for each other. Which, in my book, is a good definition for friendship.
I am good, but not an angel. I do sin, but I am not the devil. I am just a small girl in a big world trying to find someone to love.
An actor is supposed to be a sensitive instrument. Isaac Stern takes good care of his violin. What if everybody jumped on his violin?
I don't know if high society is different in other cities, but in Hollywood, important people can't stand to be invited someplace that isn't full of other important people. They don't mind a few unfamous people being present because they make good listeners.
Good humor is a tonic for mind and body. It is the best antidote for anxiety and depression. It is a business asset. It attracts and keeps friends. It lightens human burdens. It is the direct route to serenity and contentment.
Many a man fails as an original thinker simply because his memory it too good.
If you're married, and you have a wife, and you really love your wife, is it good enough to only say to your wife 'I love her' the day you get married? Or should you tell her every single day when you wake up and every opportunity? And that's how I feel about my relationship with Jesus Christ is that it is the most important thing in my life.
It is good to express a thing twice right at the outset and so to give it a right foot and also a left one. Truth can surely stand on one leg, but with two it will be able to walk and get around.
Whoever does not have a good father should procure one.
I am as bad as the worst, but, thank God, I am as good as the best.
As for doing good that is one of the professions which is full. Moreover I have tried it fairly and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree with my constitution.
Whatever is done for love always occurs beyond good and evil.
Honesty and integrity are absolutely essential for success in life - all areas of life. The really good news is that anyone can develop both honesty and integrity.
Manners are a sensitive awareness of the feelings of others. If you have that awareness, you have good manners, no matter what fork you use.
Drawing is the honesty of the art. There is no possibility of cheating. It is either good or bad.
The evil that is in the world almost always comes of ignorance, and good intentions may do as much harm as malevolence if they lack understanding.
A good compromise, a good piece of legislation, is like a good sentence or a good piece of music. Everybody can recognize it. They say, 'Huh. It works. It makes sense.'
There is in general good reason to suppose that in several respects the gods could all benefit from instruction by us human beings. We humans are - more humane.
A tree is known by its fruit a man by his deeds. A good deed is never lost he who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love.
There is no lonelier man in death, except the suicide, than that man who has lived many years with a good wife and then outlived her. If two people love each other there can be no happy end to it.
The bad gains respect through imitation, the good loses it especially in art.
You say it is the good cause that hallows even war? I say unto you: it is the good war that hallows any cause.
A return to first principles in a republic is sometimes caused by the simple virtues of one man. His good example has such an influence that the good men strive to imitate him, and the wicked are ashamed to lead a life so contrary to his example.
Look within. Within is the fountain of good, and it will ever bubble up, if thou wilt ever dig.
Ideas can be life-changing. Sometimes all you need to open the door is just one more good idea.
Any man may easily do harm, but not every man can do good to another.
What is good? All that heightens the feeling of power, the will to power, power itself in man.
Here's the good news. If I realize that I'm insane, then I'm okay with it. I'm not dangerous insane.
I don't think of myself as a poor deprived ghetto girl who made good. I think of myself as somebody who from an early age knew I was responsible for myself, and I had to make good.
Honestly, I'd love to be remembered as one of the best to ever pick up a mic, but if I'm doing my part to lessen some racial tension I feel good about what I'm doing.
I had a really good childhood up until I was nine, then a classic case of divorce really affected me.
A man of great common sense and good taste - meaning thereby a man without originality or moral courage.
The best executive is one who has sense enough to pick good people to do what he wants done, and self-restraint enough to keep from meddling with them while they do it.
It feels good to have your work respected again.
The way to gain a good reputation is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear.
Fun is good.
Too much of a good thing can be wonderful.
Apply yourself both now and in the next life. Without effort, you cannot be prosperous. Though the land be good, You cannot have an abundant crop without cultivation.
When I'm good I'm very, very good, but when I'm bad, I'm better.
I've always taught that a poor economy is the best opportunity for salespeople because the naysayers and grumblers have already given up, leaving more territory, more opportunities to be successful than in a good economy when virtually all salespeople are out there, giving it their best.
A free press can, of course, be good or bad, but, most certainly without freedom, the press will never be anything but bad.
Dusting is a good example of the futility of trying to put things right. As soon as you dust, the fact of your next dusting has already been established.
You know the good part about all those executions in Texas? Fewer Texans.
Good artists copy, great artists steal.
A retentive memory may be a good thing, but the ability to forget is the true token of greatness.
If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life.
I would like to be remembered as a man who had a wonderful time living life, a man who had good friends, fine family - and I don't think I could ask for anything more than that, actually.
I have no desire to take all black people back to Africa there are blacks who are no good here and will likewise be no good there.
Waste no more time arguing about what a good man should be. Be one.
Everyone has inside of him a piece of good news. The good news is that you don't know how great you can be! How much you can love! What you can accomplish! And what your potential is!
I only wish that ordinary people had an unlimited capacity for doing harm then they might have an unlimited power for doing good.
I like refried beans. That's why I wanna try fried beans, because maybe they're just as good and we're just wasting time. You don't have to fry them again after all.
Instead of giving money to found colleges to promote learning, why don't they pass a constitutional amendment prohibiting anybody from learning anything? If it works as good as the Prohibition one did, why, in five years we would have the smartest race of people on earth.
To invent, you need a good imagination and a pile of junk.
The first requisite of a good citizen in this republic of ours is that he shall be able and willing to pull his own weight.
Good nature is worth more than knowledge, more than money, more than honor, to the persons who possess it.
I have seen how the foundations of the world are laid, and I have not the least doubt that it will stand a good while.
There is more of good nature than of good sense at the bottom of most marriages.
I am confident that, in the end, common sense and justice will prevail. I'm an optimist, brought up on the belief that if you wait to the end of the story, you get to see the good people live happily ever after.
People who have good relationships at home are more effective in the marketplace.
I look back on my life like a good day's work, it was done and I am satisfied with it.
In modern war... you will die like a dog for no good reason.
No evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death.
A perpetual holiday is a good working definition of hell.
Depend upon yourself. Make your judgement trustworthy by trusting it. You can develop good judgement as you do the muscles of your body - by judicious, daily exercise. To be known as a man of sound judgement will be much in your favor.
One of the sanest, surest, and most generous joys of life comes from being happy over the good fortune of others.
My friends and family are my support system. They tell me what I need to hear, not what I want to hear and they are there for me in the good and bad times. Without them I have no idea where I would be and I know that their love for me is what's keeping my head above the water.
Being good in business is the most fascinating kind of art. Making money is art and working is art and good business is the best art.
Marriage is good enough for the lower classes: they have facilities for desertion that are denied to us.
Experience taught me a few things. One is to listen to your gut, no matter how good something sounds on paper. The second is that you're generally better off sticking with what you know. And the third is that sometimes your best investments are the ones you don't make.
Everyone has highs and lows that they have to learn from, but every morning I start off with a good head on my shoulders, saying to myself, 'It's going to be a good day!'.
He's a man of great common sense and good taste - meaning thereby a man without originality or moral courage.
Judgements prevent us from seeing the good that lies beyond appearances.
Do your little bit of good where you are its those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.
I wish they'd had electric guitars in cotton fields back in the good old days. A whole lot of things would've been straightened out.
It's easier to replace a dead man than a good picture.
I think when you spread the wealth around it's good for everybody.
A hard man is good to find.
Every day is a good day to be alive, whether the sun's shining or not.
Whatever good things we build end up building us.
Good manners sometimes means simply putting up with other people's bad manners.
The depressing thing about tennis is that no matter how good I get, I'll never be as good as a wall.
There must always remain something that is antagonistic to good.
Character is the ability to carry out a good resolution long after the excitement of the moment has passed.
The highest reward that God gives us for good work is the ability to do better work.
I am confident that nobody... will accuse me of selfishness if I ask to spend time, while I am still in good health, with my family, my friends and also with myself.
Only government can take perfectly good paper, cover it with perfectly good ink and make the combination worthless.
A man is as good as he has to be, and a woman as bad as she dares.
Good leadership consists of showing average people how to do the work of superior people.
Get correct views of life, and learn to see the world in its true light. It will enable you to live pleasantly, to do good, and, when summoned away, to leave without regret.
Don't gamble take all your savings and buy some good stock and hold it till it goes up, then sell it. If it don't go up, don't buy it.
Much of the social history of the Western world, over the past three decades, has been a history of replacing what worked with what sounded good.
Friendship multiplies the good of life and divides the evil.
I have no other view than to promote the public good, and am unambitious of honors not founded in the approbation of my Country.
It is lamentable, that to be a good patriot one must become the enemy of the rest of mankind.
Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them.
Religious liberty is the first freedom in our Constitution. And whether the cause is justice for the persecuted, compassion for the needy and the sick, or mercy for the child waiting to be born, there is no greater force for good in the nation than Christian conscience in action.
I like a man who's good, but not too good - for the good die young, and I hate a dead one.
The brain is like a muscle. When it is in use we feel very good. Understanding is joyous.
There is the good and the bad, the great and the low, the just and the unjust. I swear to you that all that will never change.
Do not ever say that the desire to 'do good' by force is a good motive. Neither power-lust nor stupidity are good motives.
A celibate clergy is an especially good idea, because it tends to suppress any hereditary propensity toward fanaticism.
I guess the real reason that my wife and I had children is the same reason that Napoleon had for invading Russia: it seemed like a good idea at the time.
To assert in any case that a man must be absolutely cut off from society because he is absolutely evil amounts to saying that society is absolutely good, and no-one in his right mind will believe this today.
I met Woz when I was 13, at a friend's garage. He was about 18. He was, like, the first person I met who knew more electronics than I did at that point. We became good friends, because we shared an interest in computer and we had a sense of humor. We pulled all kinds of pranks together.
What is moral is what you feel good after, and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.
There is only one difference between a long life and a good dinner: that, in the dinner, the sweets come last.
Hatred is gained as much by good works as by evil.
I have found little that is 'good' about human beings on the whole. In my experience most of them are trash, no matter whether they publicly subscribe to this or that ethical doctrine or to none at all. That is something that you cannot say aloud, or perhaps even think.
A thing moderately good is not so good as it ought to be. Moderation in temper is always a virtue but moderation in principle is always a vice.
Life's pretty good, and why wouldn't it be? I'm a pirate, after all.
I've always thought that people need to feel good about themselves and I see my role as offering support to them, to provide some light along the way.
If it looks good, you'll see it. If it sounds good, you'll hear it. If its marketed right, you'll buy it. But... If its real... you'll feel it.
A good teacher can inspire hope, ignite the imagination, and instill a love of learning.
Music is love, love is music, music is life, and I love my life. Thank you and good night.
We made the buttons on the screen look so good you'll want to lick them.
After every storm the sun will smile for every problem there is a solution, and the soul's indefeasible duty is to be of good cheer.
I tried to drown my sorrows, but the bastards learned how to swim, and now I am overwhelmed by this decent and good feeling.
This is what customers pay us for - to sweat all these details so it's easy and pleasant for them to use our computers. We're supposed to be really good at this. That doesn't mean we don't listen to customers, but it's hard for them to tell you what they want when they've never seen anything remotely like it.
An economist's guess is liable to be as good as anybody else's.
He who is not a good servant will not be a good master.
A person is born with feelings of envy and hate. If he gives way to them, they will lead him to violence and crime, and any sense of loyalty and good faith will be abandoned.
They wrote in the old days that it is sweet and fitting to die for one's country. But in modern war, there is nothing sweet nor fitting in your dying. You will die like a dog for no good reason.
Dreams will get you nowhere, a good kick in the pants will take you a long way.
People think love is an emotion. Love is good sense.
The test of good manners is to be patient with the bad ones.
That terrible mood of depression of whether it's any good or not is what is known as The Artist's Reward.
A good painting to me has always been like a friend. It keeps me company, comforts and inspires.
Nonviolence is a good policy when the conditions permit.
If you're in a bad situation, don't worry it'll change. If you're in a good situation, don't worry it'll change.
1913 wasn't a very good year. 1913 gave us the income tax, the 16th amendment and the IRS.
I believe in using words, not fists. I believe in my outrage knowing people are living in boxes on the street. I believe in honesty. I believe in a good time. I believe in good food. I believe in sex.
Dig within. Within is the wellspring of Good and it is always ready to bubble up, if you just dig.
Love seeks one thing only: the good of the one loved. It leaves all the other secondary effects to take care of themselves. Love, therefore, is its own reward.
The good life is a process, not a state of being. It is a direction not a destination.
It's a good thing we don't get all the government we pay for.
All good books have one thing in common - they are truer than if they had really happened.
I must say I find television very educational. The minute somebody turns it on, I go to the library and read a good book.
We are all here for a spell, get all the good laughs you can.
Thank you, God, for this good life and forgive us if we do not love it enough.
A market is never saturated with a good product, but it is very quickly saturated with a bad one.
The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.
A good leader takes a little more than his share of the blame, a little less than his share of the credit.
The rulers of the state are the only persons who ought to have the privilege of lying, either at home or abroad they may be allowed to lie for the good of the state.
Liars need to have good memories.
In the final analysis, the questions of why bad things happen to good people transmutes itself into some very different questions, no longer asking why something happened, but asking how we will respond, what we intend to do now that it happened.
The good parts of a book may be only something a writer is lucky enough to overhear or it may be the wreck of his whole damn life and one is as good as the other.
We ought to do good to others as simply as a horse runs, or a bee makes honey, or a vine bears grapes season after season without thinking of the grapes it has borne.
I'm leaving because the weather is too good. I hate London when it's not raining.
I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.
No one would remember the Good Samaritan if he'd only had good intentions he had money as well.
A good politician is quite as unthinkable as an honest burglar.
Too much of a good thing can be taxing.
What good are fans? You can't eat applause for breakfast. You can't sleep with it.
It takes more than just a good looking body. You've got to have the heart and soul to go with it.
In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
For a long time now I have tried simply to write the best I can. Sometimes I have good luck and write better than I can.
It seems to me we can never give up longing and wishing while we are thoroughly alive. There are certain things we feel to be beautiful and good, and we must hunger after them.
I realize I don't do a very good job in keeping up to date, but I try to.
To prefer evil to good is not in human nature and when a man is compelled to choose one of two evils, no one will choose the greater when he might have the less.
Our business in life is not to succeed, but to continue to fail in good spirits.
Until we meet again, may the good Lord take a liking to you.
There is no harm in repeating a good thing.
The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.
When you have shot one bird flying you have shot all birds flying. They are all different and they fly in different ways but the sensation is the same and the last one is as good as the first.
For good nurture and education implant good constitutions.
Truth is the beginning of every good to the gods, and of every good to man.
When you put down the good things you ought to have done, and leave out the bad ones you did do well, that's Memoirs.
Know one knows whether death, which people fear to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good.
The good is the beautiful.
Twice and thrice over, as they say, good is it to repeat and review what is good.
They didn't want it good, they wanted it Wednesday.
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
If only we'd stop trying to be happy we'd have a pretty good time.
In all secrets there is a kind of guilt, however beautiful or joyful they may be, or for what good end they may be set to serve. Secrecy means evasion, and evasion means a problem to the moral mind.
Here is the rule to remember in the future, When anything tempts you to be bitter: not, 'This is a misfortune' but 'To bear this worthily is good fortune.'
I would rather lose a good earring than be caught without make-up.
Better is the enemy of good.
I think we consider too much the good luck of the early bird and not enough the bad luck of the early worm.
You grow up a bit damaged or broken then you have some success but you don't know how to feel good about the work you're doing or the life you're leading.
Joy is what happens to us when we allow ourselves to recognize how good things really are.
I'd like to get four people who do cart wheels very good, and make a cart.
The whole course of human history may depend on a change of heart in one solitary and even humble individual - for it is in the solitary mind and soul of the individual that the battle between good and evil is waged and ultimately won or lost.
People write negatives things, cause they feel that's what sells. Good news to them, doesn't sell.
The best is the enemy of the good.
All good music resembles something. Good music stirs by its mysterious resemblance to the objects and feelings which motivated it.
Treasure the love you receive above all. It will survive long after your good health has vanished.
Anything you're good at contributes to happiness.
In life, all good things come hard, but wisdom is the hardest to come by.
If you lead a country like Britain, a strong country, a country which has taken a lead in world affairs in good times and in bad, a country that is always reliable, then you have to have a touch of iron about you.
I intend to fight and I want to win. But my priorities are basically to be a good Brother and a strong one, and to try to be a good father one day.
All tyranny needs to gain a foothold is for people of good conscience to remain silent.
Nothing good ever comes of violence.
The society which scorns excellence in plumbing as a humble activity and tolerates shoddiness in philosophy because it is an exalted activity will have neither good plumbing nor good philosophy: neither its pipes nor its theories will hold water.
If the critics are right that I've made all my decisions based on polls, then I must not be very good at reading them.
If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
When you are angry or frustrated, what comes out? Whatever it is, it's a good indication of what you're made of.
Few people have the wisdom to prefer the criticism that would do them good, to the praise that deceives them.
Life's a fight. It's a good fight of faith.
Absences are a good influence in love and keep it bright and delicate.
Books are good enough in their own way, but they are a poor substitute for life.
The opportunity for doing mischief is found a hundred times a day, and of doing good once in a year.
Setting a good example is a far better way to spread ideals than through force of arms.
All styles are good except the tiresome kind.
Life is neither good or evil, but only a place for good and evil.
He who is too busy doing good finds no time to be good.
That which is not good for the bee-hive cannot be good for the bees.
A good listener is usually thinking about something else.
Death is a commingling of eternity with time in the death of a good man, eternity is seen looking through time.
All you need for happiness is a good gun, a good horse, and a good wife.
When you are older you will understand how precious little things, seemingly of no value in themselves, can be loved and prized above all price when they convey the love and thoughtfulness of a good heart.
In this country it is a good thing to kill an admiral from time to time to encourage the others.
When bad men combine, the good must associate else they will fall one by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle.
When I woke up this morning my girlfriend asked me, 'Did you sleep good?' I said 'No, I made a few mistakes.'
Make friends with the angels, who though invisible are always with you. Often invoke them, constantly praise them, and make good use of their help and assistance in all your temporal and spiritual affairs.
There are two great forces, God's force of good and the devil's force of evil, and I believe Satan is alive and he is working, and he is working harder than ever, and we have many mysteries that we don't understand.
My message is that God is a good God.
Go to foreign countries and you will get to know the good things one possesses at home.
My idea of good company is the company of clever, well-informed people who have a great deal of conversation that is what I call good company.
Tomorrow is nothing, today is too late the good lived yesterday.
A conversation is a dialogue, not a monologue. That's why there are so few good conversations: due to scarcity, two intelligent talkers seldom meet.
You can do more good by being good than any other way.
And finally I twist my heart round again, so that the bad is on the outside and the good is on the inside, and keep on trying to find a way of becoming what I would so like to be, and could be, if there weren't any other people living in the world.
The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.
Bad politicians are sent to Washington by good people who don't vote.
I think a gentleman is someone who holds the comfort of other people above their own. The instinct to do that is inside every good man, I believe. The rules about opening doors and buying dinner and all of that other 'gentleman' stuff is a chess game, especially these days.
Good character is not formed in a week or a month. It is created little by little, day by day. Protracted and patient effort is needed to develop good character.
Posterity: you will never know how much it has cost my generation to preserve your freedom. I hope you will make good use of it.
It seems to never occur to fools that merit and good fortune are closely united.
Down on your knees, and thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love.
Politics ought to be the part-time profession of every citizen who would protect the rights and privileges of free people and who would preserve what is good and fruitful in our national heritage.
About astrology and palmistry: they are good because they make people vivid and full of possibilities. They are communism at its best. Everybody has a birthday and almost everybody has a palm.
No good deed goes unpunished.
In the beginning there was the word. The word was Jah. The word is in I, Jah is in I. I make what is good, better, and what is better, best. I follow this in every aspect of life.
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.
It's really a wonder that I haven't dropped all my ideals, because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out. Yet I keep them, because in spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart.
One good schoolmaster is of more use than a hundred priests.
Good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them.
If there is such a thing as a good marriage, it is because it resembles friendship rather than love.
The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom.
People have to talk about something just to keep their voice boxes in working order so they'll have good voice boxes in case there's ever anything really meaningful to say.
I am in politics because of the conflict between good and evil, and I believe that in the end good will triumph.
You must become an old man in good time if you wish to be an old man long.
As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.
In art the best is good enough.
You're only as good as your last haircut.
Whatever the universal nature assigns to any man at any time is for the good of that man at that time.
And above all things, never think that you're not good enough yourself. A man should never think that. My belief is that in life people will take you at your own reckoning.
I have always believed, and I still believe, that whatever good or bad fortune may come our way we can always give it meaning and transform it into something of value.
A good job is more than just a paycheck. A good job fosters independence and discipline, and contributes to the health of the community. A good job is a means to provide for the health and welfare of your family, to own a home, and save for retirement.
A man that does not know how to be angry does not know how to be good.
Many of you are well enough off that the tax cuts may have helped you. We're saying that for America to get back on track, we're probably going to cut that short and not give it to you. We're going to take things away from you on behalf of the common good.
A good man can be stupid and still be good. But a bad man must have brains.
By cultivating the beautiful we scatter the seeds of heavenly flowers, as by doing good we cultivate those that belong to humanity.
If there were no bad people, there would be no good lawyers.
It is always the best policy to speak the truth, unless, of course, you are an exceptionally good liar.
All married couples should learn the art of battle as they should learn the art of making love. Good battle is objective and honest - never vicious or cruel. Good battle is healthy and constructive, and brings to a marriage the principles of equal partnership.
I talked to the players and tried to make them aware of what was good and bad, but I didn't try to run their lives.
My eyesight is not nearly as good. My hearing is probably going away. My memory is slipping too. But I'm still around.
Good teaching is one-fourth preparation and three-fourths pure theatre.
This battle for 'common-sense' gun control laws pits emotion and passion against logic and reason. All too often in such a contest, logic loses. So, expect more meaningless, if not harmful, 'gun control' legislation. Good news - if you're a crook.
The man who has the will to undergo all labor may win to any good.
It's good to experience Hollywood in short bursts, I guess. Little snippets. I don't think I can handle being here all the time, it's pretty nutty.
It seemed the world was divided into good and bad people. The good ones slept better while the bad ones seemed to enjoy the waking hours much more.
Giving every man a vote has no more made men wise and free than Christianity has made them good.
Our creator is the same and never changes despite the names given Him by people here and in all parts of the world. Even if we gave Him no name at all, He would still be there, within us, waiting to give us good on this earth.
There is an infinite difference between a little wrong and just right, between fairly good and the best, between mediocrity and superiority.
If you don't think drugs have done good things for us, then take all of your records, tapes and CD's and burn them.
To be a good loser is to learn how to win.
It is the mark of a good action that it appears inevitable in retrospect.
The mark of a good action is that it appears inevitable in retrospect.
All human beings are commingled out of good and evil.
There is an idea abroad among moral people that they should make their neighbors good. One person I have to make good: Myself. But my duty to my neighbor is much more nearly expressed by saying that I have to make him happy if I may.
Well, well, Henry James is pretty good, though he is of the nineteenth century, and that glaringly.
He who would do good to another must do it in Minute Particulars: general Good is the plea of the scoundrel, hypocrite, and flatterer, for Art and Science cannot exist but in minutely organized Particulars.
No matter what looms ahead, if you can eat today, enjoy today, mix good cheer with friends today enjoy it and bless God for it.
It is not a God, just and good, but a devil, under the name of God, that the Bible describes.
The past is our definition. We may strive with good reason to escape it, or to escape what is bad in it. But we will escape it only by adding something better to it.
I would go to the deeps a hundred times to cheer a downcast spirit. It is good for me to have been afflicted, that I might know how to speak a word in season to one that is weary.
To me, to be a conservative means to conserve the good parts of America and to conserve our Constitution.
The good die young but not always. The wicked prevail but not consistently. I am confused by life, and I feel safe within the confines of the theatre.
A book is good company. It is full of conversation without loquacity. It comes to your longing with full instruction, but pursues you never.
Capitalism is the astounding belief that the most wickedest of men will do the most wickedest of things for the greatest good of everyone.
Be sure what you want and be sure about yourself. Fashion is not just beauty, it's about good attitude. You have to believe in yourself and be strong.
And I hope that five years and 10 years from now, I'll be a better man, a more mature man, a wiser man, a more humble man and a more spirited man to serve the good of my people and the good of humanity.
I want to state upfront, unequivocally and without doubt: I do not believe that any racial, ethnic or gender group has an advantage in sound judging. I do believe that every person has an equal opportunity to be a good and wise judge, regardless of their background or life experiences.
It makes my heart sick when I remember all the good words and the broken promises.
It's no good running a pig farm badly for 30 years while saying, 'Really, I was meant to be a ballet dancer.' By then, pigs will be your style.
What is the good of your stars and trees, your sunrise and the wind, if they do not enter into our daily lives?
Making money is art and working is art and good business is the best art.
A lot of good arguments are spoiled by some fool who knows what he is talking about.
It is impossible to imagine Goethe or Beethoven being good at billiards or golf.
The sad truth is that most evil is done by people who never make up their minds to be good or evil.
Heaven and hell suppose two distinct species of men, the good and the bad. But the greatest part of mankind float betwixt vice and virtue.
There are only really a few stories to tell in the end, and betrayal and the failure of love is one of those good stories to tell.
The chief enemy of creativity is 'good' sense.
If I'd had good discipline, I might have gone into music.
I had three points I wanted to make: That not everybody in Hollywood is on the left, that Obama has broken a lot of the promises he made when he took office, and that the people should feel free to get rid of any politician who's not doing a good job. But I didn't make up my mind exactly what I was going to say until I said it.
Baseball is the only field of endeavor where a man can succeed three times out of ten and be considered a good performer.
Nothing tastes as good as skinny feels.
The main foundations of every state, new states as well as ancient or composite ones, are good laws and good arms you cannot have good laws without good arms, and where there are good arms, good laws inevitably follow.
We don't have enough support for maternal leave and the kinds of things that some of the European countries do. So we still make it hard on women to go into the work force and feel that they can be good at work but then doing the most important job, which is raising your children in a responsible and positive way.
A good idea is about ten percent and implementation and hard work, and luck is 90 percent.
Hell isn't merely paved with good intentions it's walled and roofed with them. Yes, and furnished too.
The fact is that people are good, Give people affection and security, and they will give affection and be secure in their feelings and their behavior.
It's good to know how to read, but it's dangerous to know how to read and not how to interpret what you're reading.
When you have a good mother and no father, God kind of sits in. It's not enough, but it helps.
The American people I talk to don't spend every moment thinking, 'How can I tax my neighbor more than they're being taxed?' They say, 'How can I get a good job? How can my kids get good jobs? How can seniors have a confidence in their future when they know that Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are bankrupt?'
Women wish to be loved without a why or a wherefore not because they are pretty, or good, or well-bred, or graceful, or intelligent, but because they are themselves.
A man must be willing to die for justice. Death is an inescapable reality and men die daily, but good deeds live forever.
A bad man is the sort who weeps every time he speaks of a good woman.
A garden requires patient labor and attention. Plants do not grow merely to satisfy ambitions or to fulfill good intentions. They thrive because someone expended effort on them.
I question myself every day. That's what I still find motivating about this. I don't have the answers, I don't pretend that I do just because I won the match. Just keep fighting and maybe something good happens.
By having a reverence for life, we enter into a spiritual relation with the world By practicing reverence for life we become good, deep, and alive.
Dedicate yourself to the good you deserve and desire for yourself. Give yourself peace of mind. You deserve to be happy. You deserve delight.
Feeling good about government is like looking on the bright side of any catastrophe. When you quit looking on the bright side, the catastrophe is still there.
Never be discouraged. If I were sunk in the lowest pits of Nova Scotia, with the Rocky Mountains piled on me, I would hang on, exercise faith, and keep up good courage, and I would come out on top.
Chemistry can be a good and bad thing. Chemistry is good when you make love with it. Chemistry is bad when you make crack with it.
Happiness? A good cigar, a good meal, a good cigar and a good woman - or a bad woman it depends on how much happiness you can handle.
Sorrow can be alleviated by good sleep, a bath and a glass of wine.
Say 'no' more than 'yes,' and just make sure you surround yourself with good people.
The word 'good' has many meanings. For example, if a man were to shoot his grandmother at a range of five hundred yards, I should call him a good shot, but not necessarily a good man.
Compromise is but the sacrifice of one right or good in the hope of retaining another - too often ending in the loss of both.
Ten percent of the big fish still remain. There are still some blue whales. There are still some krill in Antarctica. There are a few oysters in Chesapeake Bay. Half the coral reefs are still in pretty good shape, a jeweled belt around the middle of the planet. There's still time, but not a lot, to turn things around.
A good man would prefer to be defeated than to defeat injustice by evil means.
If you stand up and be counted, from time to time you may get yourself knocked down. But remember this: A man flattened by an opponent can get up again. A man flattened by conformity stays down for good.
A good photograph is knowing where to stand.
I am glad that I paid so little attention to good advice had I abided by it I might have been saved from some of my most valuable mistakes.
We are all ready to be savage in some cause. The difference between a good man and a bad one is the choice of the cause.
Anyone who proposes to do good must not expect people to roll stones out of his way, but must accept his lot calmly, even if they roll a few stones upon it.
Perhaps it's good for one to suffer. Can an artist do anything if he's happy? Would he ever want to do anything? What is art, after all, but a protest against the horrible inclemency of life?
We seldom find any person of good sense, except those who share our opinions.
There is something good in all seeming failures. You are not to see that now. Time will reveal it. Be patient.
Men and women of every faith and good people with none at all sincerely strive to do right and lead a purpose-driven life.
No man is good enough to govern any woman without her consent.
Julia progresses from cradle to grave, showing how government makes every good thing in her life possible. The weak economy, high unemployment, falling wages, rising gas prices, the national debt, the insolvency of entitlements - all these are fictionally assumed away in a cartoon that is produced by a president who wants us to forget about them.
I wasn't in school often enough to really belong to a 'clique,' but my friends all studied hard and got pretty good grades. They were good people with self-respect. I still like to be friends with people I admire something about I really believe that we become like the people we're surrounded by, so I choose my friends carefully!
What does it say about a president's policies when he has to use a cartoon character rather than real people to justify his record? What does it say about the fiction of old liberalism to insist that good jobs and good schools and good wages will result from policies that have failed us, time and again?
And that's how it is in America. We look to our communities, our faiths, our families for our joy, our support, in good times and bad. It is both how we live our lives and why we live our lives.
I am running for president to help create a better future. A future where everyone who wants a job can find one. Where no senior fears for the security of their retirement. An America where every parent knows that their child will get an education that leads them to a good job and a bright horizon.
Husbands never become good they merely become proficient.
When times are tough and people are frustrated and angry and hurting and uncertain, the politics of constant conflict may be good, but what is good politics does not necessarily work in the real world. What works in the real world is cooperation.
Joyfulness keeps the heart and face young. A good laugh makes us better friends with ourselves and everybody around us.
The secret to success is good leadership, and good leadership is all about making the lives of your team members or workers better.
There is nothing I love as much as a good fight.
If one has a good disposition, what other virtue is needed? If a man has fame, what is the value of other ornamentation?
Good things happen when you meet strangers.
If women believed in their husbands they would be a good deal happier and also a good deal more foolish.
There is a saying in Baltimore that crabs may be prepared in fifty ways and that all of them are good.
I have one yardstick by which I test every major problem - and that yardstick is: Is it good for America?
To kill an error is as good a service as, and sometimes even better than, the establishing of a new truth or fact.
A bad book is as much of a labor to write as a good one, it comes as sincerely from the author's soul.
Why not invest your assets in the companies you really like? As Mae West said, 'Too much of a good thing can be wonderful'.
The worst thing about that kind of prejudice... is that while you feel hurt and angry and all the rest of it, it feeds you self-doubt. You start thinking, perhaps I am not good enough.
A good motto is: use friendliness but do not use your friends.
I surround myself with positive, productive people of good will and decency.
One can know a man from his laugh, and if you like a man's laugh before you know anything of him, you may confidently say that he is a good man.
Walk a mile in my shoes is good advice. Our children will learn to respect others if they are used to imagining themselves in another's place.
As people do better, they start voting like Republicans - unless they have too much education and vote Democratic, which proves there can be too much of a good thing.
If there is dissatisfaction with the status quo, good. If there is ferment, so much the better. If there is restlessness, I am pleased. Then let there be ideas, and hard thought, and hard work. If man feels small, let man make himself bigger.
Inspiration is one thing and you can't control it, but hard work is what keeps the ship moving. Good luck means, work hard. Keep up the good work.
I don't think Christmas is necessarily about things. It's about being good to one another, it's about the Christian ethic, it's about kindness.
The hardest job kids face today is learning good manners without seeing any.
If merely 'feeling good' could decide, drunkenness would be the supremely valid human experience.
I don't think it's a good advert for any restaurant, a fat chef, and secondly, who wants to eat a dessert when the chef's a fat pig.
Our forces saved the remnants of the Jewish people of Europe for a new life and a new hope in the reborn land of Israel. Along with all men of good will, I salute the young state and wish it well.
My New Year's resolution is to stick to a good workout plan that will keep me healthy and happy.
Everyone who wants to do good to the human race always ends in universal bullying.
Surround yourself with good people. Whether they're the best or not, people are capable of learning if they've got good hearts and they're good souls.
For evil to flourish, it only requires good men to do nothing.
The only thing that ultimately matters is to eat an ice-cream cone, play a slide trombone, plant a small tree, good God, now you're free.
Anybody who says they are a good liar obviously is not, because any legitimately savvy liar would always insist they're honest about everything.
I think most of the people involved in any art always secretly wonder whether they are really there because they're good or there because they're lucky.
There are no rules for good photographs, there are only good photographs.
He that gives good advice, builds with one hand he that gives good counsel and example, builds with both but he that gives good admonition and bad example, builds with one hand and pulls down with the other.
The only work that will ultimately bring any good to any of us is the work of contributing to the healing of the world.
Words - so innocent and powerless as they are, as standing in a dictionary, how potent for good and evil they become in the hands of one who knows how to combine them.
We have a powerful potential in out youth, and we must have the courage to change old ideas and practices so that we may direct their power toward good ends.
It's a good thing I was born a girl, otherwise I'd be a drag queen.
Only the pure in heart can make a good soup.
Be good, keep your feet dry, your eyes open, your heart at peace and your soul in the joy of Christ.
It's easy to impress me. I don't need a fancy party to be happy. Just good friends, good food, and good laughs. I'm happy. I'm satisfied. I'm content.
I wake up some mornings and sit and have my coffee and look out at my beautiful garden, and I go, 'Remember how good this is. Because you can lose it.'
There is so much good in the worst of us, and so much bad in the best of us, that it ill behaves any of us to find fault with the rest of us.
Amnesty is as good for those who give it as for those who receive it. It has the admirable quality of bestowing mercy on both sides.
Our intentions may be very good, but, because the intelligence is limited, the action may turn out to be a mistake - a mistake, but not necessarily a sin, for sin comes out of a wrong intention.
I think you can have 10,000 explanations for failure, but no good explanation for success.
There are good and bad times, but our mood changes more often than our fortune.
The God we serve does not seek out the perfect, but instead uses our imperfections and our shortcomings for his greater good. I am humbled by my own limitations. But where I am weak, He is strong.
The humblest individual exerts some influence, either for good or evil, upon others.
Mr. Arthur Ashe, he was good. I read some of his books. He knew about everything, but he was real quiet and didn't talk much. I never met him.
Listen there's a hell of a good universe next door: let's go.
Every year of my life I grow more convinced that it is wisest and best to fix our attention on the beautiful and the good, and dwell as little as possible on the evil and the false.
Destiny is a good thing to accept when it's going your way. When it isn't, don't call it destiny call it injustice, treachery, or simple bad luck.
It is a good morning exercise for a research scientist to discard a pet hypothesis every day before breakfast. It keeps him young.
Every religion is good that teaches man to be good and I know of none that instructs him to be bad.
A good deed never goes unpunished.
I like to do weird things in the shower, like drink my coffee, brush my teeth and drink a smoothie. It's good time management.
The enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution.
The aim of a college education is to teach you to know a good man when you see one.
All I can tell you really is if you get to the point where someone is telling you that you are not great or not good enough, just follow your heart and don't let anybody crush your dream.
Dogs and philosophers do the greatest good and get the fewest rewards.
A vigorous five-mile walk will do more good for an unhappy but otherwise healthy adult than all the medicine and psychology in the world.
You know, when you really connect with the instrument and everything just comes out on an emotional level very naturally through your playing. That's, you know, a great night. And I think the reason I love touring so much is you're chasing that high around all the time, trying to have another good night.
It's always good to be underestimated.
Chocolate is the first luxury. It has so many things wrapped up in it: Deliciusness in the moment, childhood memories, and that grin-inducing feeling of getting a reward for being good.
Men of ill judgment ignore the good that lies within their hands, till they have lost it.
It is no good getting furious if you get stuck. What I do is keep thinking about the problem but work on something else. Sometimes it is years before I see the way forward. In the case of information loss and black holes, it was 29 years.
If it's a good movie, the sound could go off and the audience would still have a perfectly clear idea of what was going on.
My country is the world, and my religion is to do good.
Always read something that will make you look good if you die in the middle of it.
You know when something feels so good but you're afraid to feel good about it? So you kinda hold back? Everyone says, Congratulations, you must be so happy. And you say something stupid like, I'm just doing what little I can with what little I have.
I have good looking kids. Thank goodness my wife cheats on me.
Like every other good thing in this world, leisure and culture have to be paid for. Fortunately, however, it is not the leisured and the cultured who have to pay.
A film is never really good unless the camera is an eye in the head of a poet.
I don't want to be interesting. I want to be good.
Finding good players is easy. Getting them to play as a team is another story.
Plans are only good intentions unless they immediately degenerate into hard work.
I keep my ideals, because in spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart.
It's not going to do any good to land on Mars if we're stupid.
And it is easy to believe you are not good enough if you listen to everybody else.
No matter how full a reservoir of maxims one may possess, and no matter how good one's sentiments may be, if one has not taken advantage of every concrete opportunity to act, one's character may remain entirely unaffected for the better.
Those who forget good and evil and seek only to know the facts are more likely to achieve good than those who view the world through the distorting medium of their own desires.
My best moment? I have a lot of good moments but the one I prefer is when I kicked the hooligan.
It's good to trust others but, not to do so is much better.
To make no mistakes is not in the power of man but from their errors and mistakes the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
It's with bad sentiments that one makes good novels.
Like every man of sense and good feeling, I abominate work.
The reading of all good books is like a conversation with the finest minds of past centuries.
God never made a promise that was too good to be true.
Our attitudes control our lives. Attitudes are a secret power working twenty-four hours a day, for good or bad. It is of paramount importance that we know how to harness and control this great force.
My Alma mater was books, a good library... I could spend the rest of my life reading, just satisfying my curiosity.
Don't worry about people stealing your ideas. If your ideas are any good, you'll have to ram them down people's throats.
I think it's been hard for people to understand how Islam can be a good religion, and yet the Islamists are evil. Those of us who have had experience with Islam understand this, just as we understand the difference between snake handlers and people going to church on Sunday morning.
Good books, like good friends, are few and chosen the more select, the more enjoyable.
Never call an accountant a credit to his profession a good accountant is a debit to his profession.
At Christmas play and make good cheer, for Christmas comes but once a year.
Life takes its path and sometimes there are people to blame. Of course there are bad people in this world. Good, bad, it happens unfortunately. But in a way I think if there was more focus on the good, more good would happen.
The infliction of cruelty with a good conscience is a delight to moralists. That is why they invented Hell.
Bad officials are the ones elected by good citizens who do not vote.
The good die young, because they see it's no use living if you have got to be good.
Jogging is very beneficial. It's good for your legs and your feet. It's also very good for the ground. If makes it feel needed.
Professionalism is not sportsmanship. If you don't succeed, you won't be in your profession for long. In our society, it's not about good or bad. It's about who's on top.
A good artist should be isolated. If he isn't isolated, something is wrong.
Richard Nixon is a no good, lying bastard. He can lie out of both sides of his mouth at the same time, and if he ever caught himself telling the truth, he'd lie just to keep his hand in.
You can be a good neighbor only if you have good neighbors.
Your problem is how you are going to spend this one odd and precious life you have been issued. Whether you're going to spend it trying to look good and creating the illusion that you have power over people and circumstances, or whether you are going to taste it, enjoy it and find out the truth about who you are.
Far from idleness being the root of all evil, it is rather the only true good.
No good movie is too long and no bad movie is short enough.
A good laugh is sunshine in the house.
A good man often appears gauche simply because he does not take advantage of the myriad mean little chances of making himself look stylish. Preferring truth to form, he is not constantly at work upon the facade of his appearance.
Four legs good, two legs bad.
Scientific views end in awe and mystery, lost at the edge in uncertainty, but they appear to be so deep and so impressive that the theory that it is all arranged as a stage for God to watch man's struggle for good and evil seems inadequate.
In Genesis, it says that it is not good for a man to be alone but sometimes it is a great relief.
Nobody gets justice. People only get good luck or bad luck.
You built a factory out there, good for you. But I want to be clear. You moved your goods to market on the roads that the rest of us paid for. You hired workers that the rest of us paid to educate. You were safe in your factory because of police forces and fire forces that the rest of us paid for.
A good leader is one who can tell another how to reach his or her potential a great leader is one who can help another discover this potential for him or herself.
I don't believe in team motivation. I believe in getting a team prepared so it knows it will have the necessary confidence when it steps on a field and be prepared to play a good game.
If I were to say, 'God, why me?' about the bad things, then I should have said, 'God, why me?' about the good things that happened in my life.
When people see your personality come out, they feel so good, like they actually know who you are.
I'm such a good lover because I practice a lot on my own.
I don't believe that old cliche that good things come to those who wait. I think good things come to those who want something so bad they can't sit still.
Live fast, die young, and leave a good looking corpse.
I shall never be ashamed of citing a bad author if the line is good.
Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure.
Normal people have an incredible lack of empathy. They have good emotional empathy, but they don't have much empathy for the autistic kid who is screaming at the baseball game because he can't stand the sensory overload. Or the autistic kid having a meltdown in the school cafeteria because there's too much stimulation.
Mankind is not likely to salvage civilization unless he can evolve a system of good and evil which is independent of heaven and hell.
I don't look to a man to get pride in myself. It's not about having a black president, it's about having a good president, and I think that's the most important thing.
The good old days, when each idea had an owner, are gone forever.
Tolerating evil leads only to more evil. And when good people stand by and do nothing while wickedness reigns, their communities will be consumed.
The old cathedrals are good, but the great blue dome that hangs over everything is better.
May joy and good fellowship reign, and in this manner, may the Olympic Torch pursue its way through ages, increasing friendly understanding among nations, for the good of a humanity always more enthusiastic, more courageous and more pure.
Mere longevity is a good thing for those who watch Life from the side lines. For those who play the game, an hour may be a year, a single day's work an achievement for eternity.
Wisdom allows nothing to be good that will not be so forever no man to be happy but he that needs no other happiness than what he has within himself no man to be great or powerful that is not master of himself.
I just want to say, good night, sweet prince, may flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.
I'm kind of a good girl - and I'm not. I'm a good girl because I really believe in love, integrity, and respect. I'm a bad girl because I like to tease. I know that I have sex appeal in my deck of cards. But I like to get people thinking. That's what the stories in my music do.
In order to acquire a growing and lasting respect in society, it is a good thing, if you possess great talent, to give, early in your youth, a very hard kick to the right shin of the society that you love. After that, be a snob.
Now and then it's good to pause in our pursuit of happiness and just be happy.
I've learnt that through life you just get on with it. You're going to meet a lot of dishonest people along the line and you say good luck to them. I hope they live in comfort. Then I start sticking more pins in their effigies.
Suspicion is the companion of mean souls, and the bane of all good society.
Well, for us, in history where goodness is a rare pearl, he who was good almost takes precedence over he who was great.
Manners is the key thing. Say, for instance, when you're growing up, you're walking down the street, you've got to tell everybody good morning. Everybody. You can't pass one person.
Good writing is like a windowpane.
The Jews don't like Farrakhan, so they call me Hitler. Well, that's a good name. Hitler was a very great man.
I'm not in the leftist controlled Rock and Roll Hall of Fame because of my political views, primarily my lifelong militant support of the NRA, the Second Amendment, and my belief that the only good bad guy is a dead bad guy.
A good novel tells us the truth about its hero but a bad novel tells us the truth about its author.
We are justified in enforcing good morals, for they belong to all mankind but we are not justified in enforcing good manners, for good manners always mean our own manners.
I have the responsibility of over four million people, and I am in a position to do good, to be able to bring about a new life for my people, and I will continue to move in that direction. It's a burden, but it needs to be done, and you have to have the courage and wisdom to see it through.
Yet, taught by time, my heart has learned to glow for other's good, and melt at other's woe.
A whopping 89 percent of buyers start their home search online. How your house looks online is the modern equivalent of 'curb appeal.' Rent a wide-angle lens and good lighting, get rid of your clutter and post at least eight great photos to win the beauty contest.
The good things of prosperity are to be wished but the good things that belong to adversity are to be admired.
A good photographer can make you look incredible, even when you're not feeling very sexy.
Riding a motorcycle on today's highways, you have to ride in a very defensive manner. You have to be a good rider and you have to have both hands and both feet on the controls at all times.
The reason this country continues its drift toward socialism and big nanny government is because too many people vote in the expectation of getting something for nothing, not because they have a concern for what is good for the country.
Real firmness is good for anything strut is good for nothing.
A bland smile is like a green light at an intersection, it feels good when you get one, but you forget it the moment you're past it.
The problem with having a sense of humor is often that people you use it on aren't in a very good mood.
If you want that good feeling that comes from doing things for other folks then you have to pay for it in abuse and misunderstanding.
What does kissing really mean to me? To me, if you feel, when you kiss a girl, that certain feeling of all those dolphins, like, swimming through your blood stream, and you get those good tingles inside your stomach, I don't think there's any better feeling.
To understand me, you have to meet me and be around me. And then only if I'm in a good mood - don't meet me in a bad mood.
I used to be a real prince charming if I went on a date with a girl. But then I'd get to where I was likely to have a stroke from the stress of keeping up my act. I've since learned the key to a good date is to pay attention on her.
Some people thought we were presenting Archie as a false character. President Nixon thought we were making a fool out of a good man.
Under all speech that is good for anything there lies a silence that is better, Silence is deep as Eternity speech is shallow as Time.
The work an unknown good man has done is like a vein of water flowing hidden underground, secretly making the ground green.
When we are well, we all have good advice for those who are ill.
I've turned down jobs because I've said, 'Honestly, I can't find my way in. I can't do it. I love you, as a director. I think the script is good. You deserve better than I think I can do.'
I've had extraordinary good luck with my health, other than a broken elbow.
Good judgment comes from experience and experience comes from bad judgment.
You can only be as good as you dare to be bad.
The only freedom which deserves the name is that of pursuing our own good, in our own way, so long as we do not attempt to deprive others of theirs, or impede their efforts to obtain it.
Why do I not seek some real good one which I could feel, not one which I could display?
Every book you pick up has its own lesson or lessons, and quite often the bad books have more to teach than the good ones.
What is life? A madness. What is life? An illusion, a shadow, a story. And the greatest good is little enough for all life is a dream, and dreams themselves are only dreams.
One of the key problems today is that politics is such a disgrace, good people don't go into government.
To have ego means to believe in your own strength. And to also be open to other people's views. It is to be open, not closed. So, yes, my ego is big, but it's also very small in some areas. My ego is responsible for my doing what I do - bad or good.
The only good luck many great men ever had was being born with the ability and determination to overcome bad luck.
A play should give you something to think about. When I see a play and understand it the first time, then I know it can't be much good.
It's not vanity to feel you have a right to be beautiful. Women are taught to feel we're not good enough, that we must live up to someone else's standards. But my aim is to cherish myself as I am.
I hope I am remembered by my children as a good father.
To say that a work of art is good, but incomprehensible to the majority of men, is the same as saying of some kind of food that it is very good but that most people can't eat it.
Greek philosophy seems to have met with something with which a good tragedy is not supposed to meet, namely, a dull ending.
It is practically impossible to teach good programming to students that have had a prior exposure to BASIC: as potential programmers they are mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration.
Clever men are good, but they are not the best.
For all right judgment of any man or things it is useful, nay, essential, to see his good qualities before pronouncing on his bad.
Nothing that you do will ever feel good if you let people convince you that you have no choice.
Good breeding differs, if at all, from high breeding only as it gracefully remembers the rights of others, rather than gracefully insists on its own rights.
You have to have been a Republican to know how good it is to be a Democrat.
I'm delirious with joy. It proves that if you confront the universe with good intentions in your heart, it will reflect that and reward your intent. Usually. It just doesn't always do it in the way you expect.
I've run into some S.O.B. directors, but I gave them back as good as I got.
What I dream of is an art of balance, of purity and serenity devoid of troubling or depressing subject matter - a soothing, calming influence on the mind, rather like a good armchair which provides relaxation from physical fatigue.
The bad fortune of the good turns their faces up to heaven the good fortune of the bad bows their heads down to the earth.
Of all the home remedies, a good wife is best.
Being stubborn can be a good thing. Being stubborn can be a bad thing. It just depends on how you use it.
Everywhere I go, I'm asked if I think the universities stifle writers. My opinion is that they don't stifle enough of them. There's many a best seller that could have been prevented by a good teacher.
You could write a song about some kind of emotional problem you are having, but it would not be a good song, in my eyes, until it went through a period of sensitivity to a moment of clarity. Without that moment of clarity to contribute to the song, it's just complaining.
I am poor and naked, but I am the chief of the nation. We do not want riches but we do want to train our children right. Riches would do us no good. We could not take them with us to the other world. We do not want riches. We want peace and love.
On the Continent people have good food in England people have good table manners.
War is war. The only good human being is a dead one.
I was never one to patiently pick up broken fragments and glue them together again and tell myself that the mended whole was as good as new. What is broken is broken - and I'd rather remember it as it was at its best than mend it and see the broken places as long as I lived.
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it).
A Buddha is someone who finds freedom in good fortune and bad.
Fresh air is good if you do not take too much of it most of the achievements and pleasures of life are in bad air.
Active Evil is better than Passive Good.
Always do good to others. Be selfless. Mentally remove everything and be free. This is divine life. This is the direct way to Moksha or salvation.
To speak ill of others is a dishonest way of praising ourselves. Nothing is often a good thing to say, and always a clever thing to say.
I used to play sports. Then I realized you can buy trophies. Now I am good at everything.
Where would you be without friends? The people to pick you up when you need lifting? We come from homes far from perfect, so you end up almost parent and sibling to your friends - your own chosen family. There's nothing like a really loyal, dependable, good friend. Nothing.
Hope is a state of mind, not of the world. Hope, in this deep and powerful sense, is not the same as joy that things are going well, or willingness to invest in enterprises that are obviously heading for success, but rather an ability to work for something because it is good.
I like a man who can be a real friend, has a good sense of humor, a good pair of shoes and a healthy gold card.
The less we deserve good fortune, the more we hope for it.
As a real person, he wouldn't last a minute, would he? But drama is about imperfection. And we've moved away from the aspirational hero. We got tired of it, it was dull. If I was House's friend, I would hate it. How he so resolutely refuses to be happy or take the kind-hearted road. But we don't always like morally good people, do we?
He that does good to another does good also to himself.
Ladies, if you want to know the way to my heart... good spelling and good grammar, good punctuation, capitalize only where you are supposed to capitalize, it's done.
Surplus wealth is a sacred trust which its possessor is bound to administer in his lifetime for the good of the community.
There is as much greatness of mind in acknowledging a good turn, as in doing it.
There is no investment you can make which will pay you so well as the effort to scatter sunshine and good cheer through your establishment.
You have a good many little gifts and virtues, but there is no need of parading them, for conceit spoils the finest genius. There is not much danger that real talent or goodness will be overlooked long, and the great charm of all power is modesty.
Anyone who tells a lie has not a pure heart, and cannot make a good soup.
But I can say that life is good to me. Has been and is good. So I think my task is to be good to it. So how do you be good to life? You live it.
A man is only as good as what he loves.
The confession of evil works is the first beginning of good works.
I want people to remember me as a full on entertainer and a good person.
Sarcasm I now see to be, in general, the language of the devil for which reason I have long since as good as renounced it.
I was considered by my peers to be a good comedian. So that's all I ever strived to do was get some recognition from my peers.
Marriage is a very good thing, but I think it's a mistake to make a habit out of it.
I was nine or 10 years old and my father was sacked on Christmas Day. He was a manager, the results had not been good, he lost a game on December 22 or 23. On Christmas Day, the telephone rang and he was sacked in the middle of our lunch.
The stories that I want to tell, especially as a director, don't necessarily have a perfect ending because, the older you get, the more you appreciate a good day versus a happy ending. You understand that life continues on the next day the reality of things is what happens tomorrow.
There are some good people. But a good chunk of them will lie for no reason at all - it'll be ten o'clock and they'll tell you it's nine. You're looking at the clock and you can't even fathom why they're lying. They just lie because that's what they do.
I learnt a whole lot from my mother. About music, relationships, being a good person, loving people, the whole of life. I learnt about everything from her. Every single day I think about her. All through the day.
Buying books would be a good thing if one could also buy the time to read them in: but as a rule the purchase of books is mistaken for the appropriation of their contents.
I have never heard anything about the resolutions of the apostles, but a good deal about their acts.
I think sportsmanship is knowing that it is a game, that we are only as a good as our opponents, and whether you win or lose, to always give 100 percent.
Well, real estate is always good, as far as I'm concerned.
You don't appreciate a lot of stuff in school until you get older. Little things like being spanked every day by a middle-aged woman: Stuff you pay good money for in later life.
A humorist is a person who feels bad, but who feels good about it.
The Senate is a place filled with goodwill and good intentions, and if the road to hell is paved with them, then it's a pretty good detour.
Fishing provides that connection with the whole living world. It gives you the opportunity of being totally immersed, turning back into yourself in a good way. A form of meditation, some form of communion with levels of yourself that are deeper than the ordinary self.
I've always wanted to improve on the idea of living well, In moderation, wine is good for you - mentally, physically, and spiritually.
Beauty is indeed a good gift of God but that the good may not think it a great good, God dispenses it even to the wicked.
Papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes and prism, are all very good words for the lips.
A lawyer is never entirely comfortable with a friendly divorce, anymore than a good mortician wants to finish his job and then have the patient sit up on the table.
We must not discriminate between things. Where things are concerned there are no class distinctions. We must pick out what is good for us where we can find it.
Do I think faith will be an important part of being a good president? Yes, I do.
God judged it better to bring good out of evil than to suffer no evil to exist.
I'm not good at future planning. I don't plan at all. I don't know what I'm doing tomorrow. I don't have a day planner and I don't have a diary. I completely live in the now, not in the past, not in the future.
I'm leaving the screen because I don't think I am very good in the pictures and I have this beautiful dream that I'm elegant on the stage.
A good reputation is more valuable than money.
Being generous or doing things for others actually makes me feel good so I don't do it because I hope karma will come round and get me and I'll benefit from it.
Toleration is good for all, or it is good for none.
Hearing voices no one else can hear isn't a good sign, even in the wizarding world.
The best portion of a good man's life is his little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and of love.
We give a lot of others significance in our lives even when they don't deserve it. It doesn't matter if they're family or if you've known them forever. If they're not good for you, they've got to go.
Let me give you a definition of ethics: It is good to maintain and further life it is bad to damage and destroy life.
The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil.
If you don't have a spiritual practice in place when times are good, you can't expect to suddenly develop one during a moment of crisis.
Any man may be in good spirits and good temper when he's well dressed. There ain't much credit in that.
On a day when you're tired, it's important to just say good morning to everyone so they're kind of aware that it's gonna be a good day. Jamie Lee Curtis told me that.
Every test, every trial, every heartache that's been significant, I can turn it over and see how God has turned it into good no matter what.
I have only one yardstick by which I test every major problem - and that yardstick is: Is it good for America?
Thanksgiving, man. Not a good day to be my pants.
There are things they tell us that sound good to hear, but when they have accomplished their purpose they will go home and will not try to fulfill our agreements with them.
Good judgment comes from experience, and experience comes from bad judgment.
Glamour is about feeling good in your own skin.
Since you cannot do good to all, you are to pay special attention to those who, by the accidents of time, or place, or circumstances, are brought into closer connection with you.
Every good painter paints what he is.
A man is in general better pleased when he has a good dinner upon his table, than when his wife talks Greek.
A good basic selling idea, involvement and relevancy, of course, are as important as ever, but in the advertising din of today, unless you make yourself noticed and believed, you ain't got nothin'.
One has to grow up with good talk in order to form the habit of it.
Being a good teammate is when you try to sprint down a ball that everyone thinks is going out of bounds. But you go after it anyways and you get it.
All the good music has already been written by people with wigs and stuff.
It's good for everyone to understand that they are to love their enemies, simply because your enemies show you things about yourself you need to change. So in actuality enemies are friends in reverse.
I may be as bad as the worst, but, thank God, I am as good as the best.
If the opposition disarms, well and good. If it refuses to disarm, we shall disarm it ourselves.
There are three ingredients in the good life: learning, earning and yearning.
It is the test of a good religion whether you can joke about it.
What you see, but can't see over is as good as infinite.
I did the best I could, and in some arenas, my best was not good enough. I've made some bad choices.
For, if a good speaker, never so eloquent, does not see into the fact, and is not speaking the truth of that - is there a more horrid kind of object in creation?
Good judgement comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgement.
I believe that love and laughter can only happen when one person takes the time to think about what would cause the other person to feel good.
Screaming at children over their grades, especially to the point of the child's tears, is child abuse, pure and simple. It's not funny and it's not good parenting. It is a crushing, scarring, disastrous experience for the child. It isn't the least bit funny.
A peaceful man does more good than a learned one.
I was walking along and this chair came flying past me, and another, and another, and I thought, man, is this gonna be a good night.
Henceforth I ask not good fortune. I myself am good fortune.
Start living now. Stop saving the good china for that special occasion. Stop withholding your love until that special person materializes. Every day you are alive is a special occasion. Every minute, every breath, is a gift from God.
Your manuscript is both good and original but the part that is good is not original, and the part that is original is not good.
My mother was a good recreational cook, but what she basically believed about cooking was that if you worked hard and prospered, someone else would do it for you.
Man is a credulous animal, and must believe something in the absence of good grounds for belief, he will be satisfied with bad ones.
Good health and good sense are two of life's greatest blessings.
In fact, I thought that Christianity was very a good and a very valuable thing for us. But after a while, I began to feel that the story that I was told about this religion wasn't perhaps completely whole, that something was left out.
Sometimes the truth hurts. And sometimes it feels real good.
I swear by that old expression, 'One monkey don't stop no show!' The reality is, we still have some good men out there, and we should hail those men as the kings they are.
A people and their religion must be judged by social standards based on social ethics. No other standard would have any meaning if religion is held to be necessary good for the well-being of the people.
Ignorant men don't know what good they hold in their hands until they've flung it away.
The idea of redemption is always good news, even if it means sacrifice or some difficult times.
It is also true that one can write nothing readable unless one constantly struggles to efface one's own personality. Good prose is like a windowpane.
Certainly, it seems true enough that there's a good deal of irony in the world... I mean, if you live in a world full of politicians and advertising, there's obviously a lot of deception.
Men are only as good as their technical development allows them to be.
No lover, if he be of good faith, and sincere, will deny he would prefer to see his mistress dead than unfaithful.
Sometimes I'm so tired, I look down at what I'm wearing, and if it's comfortable enough to sleep in, I don't even make it into my pajamas. I'm looking down, and I'm like, 'T-shirt and stretchy pants? Yup, that's fine. It's pajama-y, good night.'
A good day is one where I can not just read a book, but write a review of it. Maybe today I'll be able to do that. I get for some reason somewhat stronger when the sun starts to go down. Dusk is a good time for me. I'm crepuscular.
I enjoy life when things are happening. I don't care if it's good things or bad things. That means you're alive.
It is good taste, and good taste alone, that possesses the power to sterilize and is always the first handicap to any creative functioning.
I'm not happy all the time, and I wouldn't want to be because that would make me a shallow person. But I do try to find the good in everybody.
To be doing good deeds is man's most glorious task.
I'd rather do a really good small part than a really bad big part.
You can't be truly rude until you understand good manners.
Edible - good to eat and wholesome to digest, as a worm to a toad, a toad to a snake, a snake to a pig, a pig to a man, and a man to a worm.
A good husband makes a good wife.
When you look good, you feel good. Confidence with what you're wearing is very important. If you feel good, you will always perform your best without worrying about anything.
I used to work in a funeral home to feel good about myself, just the fact that I was breathing.
It takes a lot of imagination to be a good photographer. You need less imagination to be a painter because you can invent things. But in photography everything is so ordinary it takes a lot of looking before you learn to see the extraordinary.
Bad taste creates many more millionaires than good taste.
The most savage controversies are about matters as to which there is no good evidence either way.
It's a good place when all you have is hope and not expectations.
Because of its tremendous solemnity death is the light in which great passions, both good and bad, become transparent, no longer limited by outward appearences.
A friend is always good to have, but a lover's kiss is better than angels raining down on me.
God has been very good to me, for I never dwell upon anything wrong which a person has done, so as to remember it afterwards. If I do remember it, I always see some other virtue in that person.
I was in enough to get along with people. I was never socially inarticulate. Not a loner. And that saved my life, saved my sanity. That and the writing. But to this day I distrust anybody who thought school was a good time. Anybody.
Any good music must be an innovation.
Now I need to take a piece of wood and make it sound like the railroad track, but I also had to make it beautiful and lovable so that a person playing it would think of it in terms of his mistress, a bartender, his wife, a good psychiatrist - whatever.
Death and love are the two wings that bear the good man to heaven.
A good garden may have some weeds.
Probably the worst time in a person's life is when they have to kill a family member because they are the devil. But otherwise it's been a pretty good day.
As soon as you concern yourself with the 'good' and 'bad' of your fellows, you create an opening in your heart for maliciousness to enter. Testing, competing with, and criticizing others weaken and defeat you.
I've gone for each type: the rough guy the nerdy, sweet, lovable guy and the slick guy. I don't really have a type. Men in general are a good thing.
The battleline between good and evil runs through the heart of every man.
Property may be destroyed and money may lose its purchasing power but, character, health, knowledge and good judgement will always be in demand under all conditions.
If you're happy, if you're feeling good, then nothing else matters.
To reach something good it is very useful to have gone astray, and thus acquire experience.
Only good girls keep diaries. Bad girls don't have time.
For most Americans, Friday afternoons are filled with positive anticipation of the weekend. In Washington, it's where government officials dump stories they want to bury. Good news gets dropped on Monday so bureaucrats can talk about it all week.
But the real secret to lifelong good health is actually the opposite: Let your body take care of you.
A good picture is equivalent to a good deed.
Edible, adj.: Good to eat, and wholesome to digest, as a worm to a toad, a toad to a snake, a snake to a pig, a pig to a man, and a man to a worm.
We call ourselves public servants but I'll tell you this: we as public servants must set an example for the rest of the nation. It is hypocritical for the public official to admonish and exhort the people to uphold the common good.
What this country needs what every country needs occasionally is a good hard bloody war to revive the vice of patriotism on which its existence as a nation depends.
The universe we observe has precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no design, no purpose, no evil, no good, nothing but blind, pitiless indifference.
I went to my son's graduation this weekend, and I heard a great quote I've never heard before from Albert Einstein. It was that the greatest danger to the world is not the bad people but it's the good people who don't speak out.
The beginning of a friendship, the fact that two people out of the thousands around them can meet and connect and become friends, seems like a kind of magic to me. But maintaining a friendship requires work. I don't mean that as a bad thing. Good art requires work as well.
I think every good Christian ought to kick Falwell right in the ass.
If you pursue good with labor, the labor passes away but the good remains if you pursue evil with pleasure, the pleasure passes away and the evil remains.
Being in a rock band is about touring. It's about writing songs and it's about making records but it's also about taking a wonderful smile onto that stage and making the people feel good about themselves.
Do not think of your faults, still less of other's faults look for what is good and strong, and try to imitate it. Your faults will drop off, like dead leaves, when their time comes.
I feel beautiful when I'm at peace with myself. When I'm serene, when I'm a good person, when I've been considerate of others.
It is not often that someone comes along who is a true friend and a good writer.
It's a good thing that beauty is only skin deep, or I'd be rotten to the core.
Let's not be afraid to speak the common sense truth: you can't have high standards without good discipline.
Bear and endure: This sorrow will one day prove to be for your good.
My mother gave lots of good advice and had a lot to say. As you get older, you realize everything she said was true.
God is everywhere but He is most manifest in man. So serve man as God. That is as good as worshipping God.
There's no regret. You can't regret. I mean, I've felt regret but I've also refused to allow regret to sow a seed and live in me because I don't believe it. You feel it, it's like guilt, it's like jealousy, it's like all those horrible things. You've just got to snip them and get them out, because they're no good.
Happiness often sneaks in through a door you didn't know you left open.
Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your own actions.
Most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be.
I am determined to be cheerful and happy in whatever situation I may find myself. For I have learned that the greater part of our misery or unhappiness is determined not by our circumstance but by our disposition.
Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.
Some cause happiness wherever they go others whenever they go.
If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion.
A table, a chair, a bowl of fruit and a violin what else does a man need to be happy?
The purpose of our lives is to be happy.
Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.
Be happy with what you have and are, be generous with both, and you won't have to hunt for happiness.
Don't wait around for other people to be happy for you. Any happiness you get you've got to make yourself.
True happiness comes from the joy of deeds well done, the zest of creating things new.
The Constitution only gives people the right to pursue happiness. You have to catch it yourself.
Achievement of your happiness is the only moral purpose of your life, and that happiness, not pain or mindless self-indulgence, is the proof of your moral integrity, since it is the proof and the result of your loyalty to the achievement of your values.
It is not how much we have, but how much we enjoy, that makes happiness.
Happiness depends upon ourselves.
Happiness doesn't depend on any external conditions, it is governed by our mental attitude.
Future. That period of time in which our affairs prosper, our friends are true and our happiness is assured.
We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Everything has its wonders, even darkness and silence, and I learn, whatever state I may be in, therein to be content.
The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts: therefore, guard accordingly, and take care that you entertain no notions unsuitable to virtue and reasonable nature.
Happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing I know.
There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying about things which are beyond the power of our will.
Just do what must be done. This may not be happiness, but it is greatness.
There are people who can do all fine and heroic things but one - keep from telling their happiness to the unhappy.
The first recipe for happiness is: avoid too lengthy meditation on the past.
Happiness is not a goal it is a by-product.
It is neither wealth nor splendor but tranquility and occupation which give you happiness.
Money can't buy happiness, but it can make you awfully comfortable while you're being miserable.
Action may not always bring happiness but there is no happiness without action.
True happiness... is not attained through self-gratification, but through fidelity to a worthy purpose.
Happiness is like a kiss. You must share it to enjoy it.
If your happiness depends on what somebody else does, I guess you do have a problem.
But what is happiness except the simple harmony between a man and the life he leads?
Love is trembling happiness.
Happiness is the only good. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is here. The way to be happy is to make others so.
Happiness is nothing more than good health and a bad memory.
Happiness is not a matter of intensity but of balance, order, rhythm and harmony.
Happiness makes up in height for what it lacks in length.
If you want to be happy, be.
Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.
To be without some of the things you want is an indispensable part of happiness.
In order to have great happiness you have to have great pain and unhappiness - otherwise how would you know when you're happy?
Your successes and happiness are forgiven you only if you generously consent to share them.
True happiness is... to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future.
Happy is the man who has broken the chains which hurt the mind, and has given up worrying once and for all.
You can be happy where you are.
Happiness is that state of consciousness which proceeds from the achievement of one's values.
An effort made for the happiness of others lifts above ourselves.
Everyone chases after happiness, not noticing that happiness is right at their heels.
A sure way to lose happiness, I found, is to want it at the expense of everything else.
The two enemies of human happiness are pain and boredom.
Happiness is found in doing, not merely possessing.
The person born with a talent they are meant to use will find their greatest happiness in using it.
What we call the secret of happiness is no more a secret than our willingness to choose life.
A large income is the best recipe for happiness I ever heard of.
Anything you're good at contributes to happiness.
There is only one happiness in this life, to love and be loved.
Happiness is an inside job.
Every gift from a friend is a wish for your happiness.
All happiness or unhappiness solely depends upon the quality of the object to which we are attached by love.
Happiness is a continuation of happenings which are not resisted.
Happiness depends more on how life strikes you than on what happens.
There is something curiously boring about somebody else's happiness.
Nothing brings me more happiness than trying to help the most vulnerable people in society. It is a goal and an essential part of my life - a kind of destiny. Whoever is in distress can call on me. I will come running wherever they are.
Never mind your happiness do your duty.
You know it's love when all you want is that person to be happy, even if you're not part of their happiness.
Happiness is ideal, it is the work of the imagination.
Do not speak of your happiness to one less fortunate than yourself.
All who joy would win must share it. Happiness was born a Twin.
You must try to generate happiness within yourself. If you aren't happy in one place, chances are you won't be happy anyplace.
The greatest of follies is to sacrifice health for any other kind of happiness.
Happiness: an agreeable sensation arising from contemplating the misery of another.
I am a kind of paranoid in reverse. I suspect people of plotting to make me happy.
Happiness is neither without us nor within us. It is in God, both without us and within us.
Happiness exists on earth, and it is won through prudent exercise of reason, knowledge of the harmony of the universe, and constant practice of generosity.
Man needs, for his happiness, not only the enjoyment of this or that, but hope and enterprise and change.
Always leave something to wish for otherwise you will be miserable from your very happiness.
It is not God's will merely that we should be happy, but that we should make ourselves happy.
When what we are is what we want to be, that's happiness.
Happiness is like those palaces in fairy tales whose gates are guarded by dragons: we must fight in order to conquer it.
Happy he who learns to bear what he cannot change.
Don't walk in front of me, I may not follow. Don't walk behind me, I may not lead. There is only one happiness in life, to love and be loved.
Happiness is having a scratch for every itch.
Happiness grows at our own firesides, and is not to be picked in strangers' gardens.
The secret of happiness is to admire without desiring.
If you wait for the perfect moment when all is safe and assured, it may never arrive. Mountains will not be climbed, races won, or lasting happiness achieved.
Happiness does not lie in happiness, but in the achievement of it.
Happiness comes only when we push our brains and hearts to the farthest reaches of which we are capable.
Happiness is a direction, not a place.
Nothing prevents happiness like the memory of happiness.
The happiness of a man in this life does not consist in the absence but in the mastery of his passions.
True happiness consists not in the multitude of friends, but in the worth and choice.
Lovers who love truly do not write down their happiness.
It's pretty hard to tell what does bring happiness poverty and wealth have both failed.
Happiness is brief. It will not stay. God batters at its sails.
Money can't buy you happiness, but it can buy you a yacht big enough to pull up right alongside it.
Happiness isn't something you experience it's something you remember.
Happiness is itself a kind of gratitude.
It is the chiefest point of happiness that a man is willing to be what he is.
It is not easy to find happiness in ourselves, and it is not possible to find it elsewhere.
The moments of happiness we enjoy take us by surprise. It is not that we seize them, but that they seize us.
To describe happiness is to diminish it.
Our happiness depends on wisdom all the way.
Happiness includes chiefly the idea of satisfaction after full honest effort. No one can possibly be satisfied and no one can be happy who feels that in some paramount affairs he failed to take up the challenge of life.
If you hope for happiness in the world, hope for it from God, and not from the world.
Desire is individual. Happiness is common.
One of the keys to happiness is a bad memory.
Happiness never lays its finger on its pulse.
Happiness is the interval between periods of unhappiness.
Happiness is like a cloud, if you stare at it long enough, it evaporates.
People let their own hang-ups become the obstacles between them and personal happiness.
Unquestionably, it is possible to do without happiness it is done involuntarily by nineteen-twentieths of mankind.
Happiness is a virtue, not its reward.
Happiness is mostly a by-product of doing what makes us feel fulfilled.
Happiness seems made to be shared.
There is only one passion, the passion for happiness.
The happiness of most people is not ruined by great catastrophes or fatal errors, but by the repetition of slowly destructive little things.
Happiness is a by-product. You cannot pursue it by itself.
Happiness is the harvest of a quiet eye.
Happiness does not consist in self-love.
Growth itself contains the germ of happiness.
To buy happiness is to sell soul.
Only man clogs his happiness with care, destroying what is with thoughts of what may be.
Happiness is composed of misfortunes avoided.
Love is the most terrible, and also the most generous of the passions it is the only one which includes in its dreams the happiness of someone else.
Satisfaction of one's curiosity is one of the greatest sources of happiness in life.
Life in common among people who love each other is the ideal of happiness.
We possess only the happiness we are able to understand.
How easy to be amiable in the midst of happiness and success.
If you have easy self-contentment, you might have a very, very cheap source of happiness.
To attain happiness in another world we need only to believe something, while to secure it in this world we must do something.
We are no longer happy so soon as we wish to be happier.
The right to happiness is fundamental.
Life everlasting in a state of happiness is the greatest desire of all men.
The happiness which is lacking makes one think even the happiness one has unbearable.
There is happiness in duty, although it may not seem so.
The secret of happiness is to admire without desiring. And that is not happiness.
Happiness will come from materialism, not from meaning.
So long as we can lose any happiness, we possess some.
Happiness is hard to recall. Its just a glow.
The action is best that secures the greatest happiness for the greatest number.
There is no worse sorrow than remembering happiness in the day of sorrow.
Affection is responsible for nine-tenths of whatever solid and durable happiness there is in our lives.
If we can but prevent the government from wasting the labours of the people, under the pretence of taking care of them, they must become happy.
Happiness is not something you postpone for the future it is something you design for the present.
Thousands of candles can be lighted from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.
You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.
To enjoy good health, to bring true happiness to one's family, to bring peace to all, one must first discipline and control one's own mind. If a man can control his mind he can find the way to Enlightenment, and all wisdom and virtue will naturally come to him.
The U. S. Constitution doesn't guarantee happiness, only the pursuit of it. You have to catch up with it yourself.
Your success and happiness lies in you. Resolve to keep happy, and your joy and you shall form an invincible host against difficulties.
Happiness resides not in possessions, and not in gold, happiness dwells in the soul.
It is very important to generate a good attitude, a good heart, as much as possible. From this, happiness in both the short term and the long term for both yourself and others will come.
Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace, and gratitude.
God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself, because it is not there. There is no such thing.
Friends show their love in times of trouble, not in happiness.
Love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own... Jealousy is a disease, love is a healthy condition. The immature mind often mistakes one for the other, or assumes that the greater the love, the greater the jealousy.
Money has never made man happy, nor will it, there is nothing in its nature to produce happiness. The more of it one has the more one wants.
Today I choose life. Every morning when I wake up I can choose joy, happiness, negativity, pain... To feel the freedom that comes from being able to continue to make mistakes and choices - today I choose to feel life, not to deny my humanity but embrace it.
The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.
Many persons have a wrong idea of what constitutes true happiness. It is not attained through self-gratification but through fidelity to a worthy purpose.
Happiness and moral duty are inseparably connected.
The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object of good government.
But O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes.
I heard a definition once: Happiness is health and a short memory! I wish I'd invented it, because it is very true.
Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close-knit family in another city.
The true secret of happiness lies in taking a genuine interest in all the details of daily life.
Happiness is not being pained in body or troubled in mind.
Truth is a deep kindness that teaches us to be content in our everyday life and share with the people the same happiness.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get.
True happiness involves the full use of one's power and talents.
Man falls from the pursuit of the ideal of plan living and high thinking the moment he wants to multiply his daily wants. Man's happiness really lies in contentment.
No one has a right to consume happiness without producing it.
Love is when the other person's happiness is more important than your own.
No matter how dull, or how mean, or how wise a man is, he feels that happiness is his indisputable right.
Never make friends with people who are above or below you in status. Such friendships will never give you any happiness.
Since you get more joy out of giving joy to others, you should put a good deal of thought into the happiness that you are able to give.
God will prepare everything for our perfect happiness in heaven, and if it takes my dog being there, I believe he'll be there.
Marriage is the most natural state of man, and... the state in which you will find solid happiness.
It is a curious sensation: the sort of pain that goes mercifully beyond our powers of feeling. When your heart is broken, your boats are burned: nothing matters any more. It is the end of happiness and the beginning of peace.
Choose your life's mate carefully. From this one decision will come 90 percent of all your happiness or misery.
Are you bored with life? Then throw yourself into some work you believe in with all your heart, live for it, die for it, and you will find happiness that you had thought could never be yours.
They must often change, who would be constant in happiness or wisdom.
We find delight in the beauty and happiness of children that makes the heart too big for the body.
Three grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.
Politicians also have no leisure, because they are always aiming at something beyond political life itself, power and glory, or happiness.
Different men seek after happiness in different ways and by different means, and so make for themselves different modes of life and forms of government.
Don't wish me happiness - I don't expect to be happy it's gotten beyond that, somehow. Wish me courage and strength and a sense of humor - I will need them all.
A mother's happiness is like a beacon, lighting up the future but reflected also on the past in the guise of fond memories.
There is no value in life except what you choose to place upon it and no happiness in any place except what you bring to it yourself.
The man who makes everything that leads to happiness depends upon himself, and not upon other men, has adopted the very best plan for living happily. This is the man of moderation, the man of manly character and of wisdom.
The only thing that could spoil a day was people. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself.
Money won't buy happiness, but it will pay the salaries of a large research staff to study the problem.
To find out what one is fitted to do, and to secure an opportunity to do it, is the key to happiness.
Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful.
Happiness is neither virtue nor pleasure nor this thing nor that but simply growth, We are happy when we are growing.
The smallest seed of faith is better than the largest fruit of happiness.
Happiness does not come from doing easy work but from the afterglow of satisfaction that comes after the achievement of a difficult task that demanded our best.
I would maintain that thanks are the highest form of thought, and that gratitude is happiness doubled by wonder.
Independence is happiness.
Happiness lies in the joy of achievement and the thrill of creative effort.
We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it.
Never permit a dichotomy to rule your life, a dichotomy in which you hate what you do so you can have pleasure in your spare time. Look for a situation in which your work will give you as much happiness as your spare time.
I start to think there really is no cure for depression, that happiness is an ongoing battle, and I wonder if it isn't one I'll have to fight for as long as I live. I wonder if it's worth it.
Happiness can exist only in acceptance.
People take different roads seeking fulfillment and happiness. Just because they're not on your road doesn't mean they've gotten lost.
Remember happiness doesn't depend upon who you are or what you have it depends solely on what you think.
There is no austerity equal to a balanced mind, and there is no happiness equal to contentment there is no disease like covetousness, and no virtue like mercy.
There is nothing I fear more than waking up without a program that will help me bring a little happiness to those with no resources, those who are poor, illiterate, and ridden with terminal disease.
The happiness of this life depends less on what befalls you than the way in which you take it.
A man who as a physical being is always turned toward the outside, thinking that his happiness lies outside him, finally turns inward and discovers that the source is within him.
The world is full of a lot of fear and a lot of negativity, and a lot of judgment. I just think people need to start shifting into joy and happiness. As corny as it sounds, we need to make a shift.
There is joy in work. There is no happiness except in the realization that we have accomplished something.
Be more dedicated to making solid achievements than in running after swift but synthetic happiness.
Life is essentially a cheat and its conditions are those of defeat the redeeming things are not happiness and pleasure but the deeper satisfactions that come out of struggle.
Part of the happiness of life consists not in fighting battles, but in avoiding them. A masterly retreat is in itself a victory.
The word 'happiness' would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness.
No one is in control of your happiness but you therefore, you have the power to change anything about yourself or your life that you want to change.
Our object in the construction of the state is the greatest happiness of the whole, and not that of any one class.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is liking what you get.
Success in its highest and noblest form calls for peace of mind and enjoyment and happiness which come only to the man who has found the work that he likes best.
Of course, to have money is just great because you can do what you think is important to you. I always was a rich person because money's not related to happiness.
Happiness is a butterfly, which when pursued, is always just beyond your grasp, but which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you.
Wealth, like happiness, is never attained when sought after directly. It comes as a by-product of providing a useful service.
We all want to help one another. Human beings are like that. We want to live by each other's happiness, not by each other's misery.
Love is the master key that opens the gates of happiness.
The happiness of society is the end of government.
The happiness and peace attained by those satisfied by the nectar of spiritual tranquillity is not attained by greedy persons restlessly moving here and there.
Happiness is a ball after which we run wherever it rolls, and we push it with our feet when it stops.
A really great talent finds its happiness in execution.
All you need for happiness is a good gun, a good horse, and a good wife.
It is necessary to the happiness of man that he be mentally faithful to himself. Infidelity does not consist in believing, or in disbelieving, it consists in professing to believe what he does not believe.
The person who seeks all their applause from outside has their happiness in another's keeping .
The secret of happiness is this: let your interests be as wide as possible, and let your reactions to the things and persons that interest you be as far as possible friendly rather than hostile.
The greatest happiness is to know the source of unhappiness.
The secret to happiness is to face the fact that the world is horrible.
The art of being happy lies in the power of extracting happiness from common things.
Action may not bring happiness but there is no happiness without action.
The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved loved for ourselves, or rather in spite of ourselves.
God isn't compatible with machinery and scientific medicine and universal happiness. You must make your choice. Our civilization has chosen machinery and medicine and happiness.
The only way to find true happiness is to risk being completely cut open.
There is no greater sorrow than to recall happiness in times of misery.
The essence of philosophy is that a man should so live that his happiness shall depend as little as possible on external things.
Happiness is beneficial for the body, but it is grief that develops the powers of the mind.
Money is human happiness in the abstract he, then, who is no longer capable of enjoying human happiness in the concrete devotes himself utterly to money.
One of the first conditions of happiness is that the link between Man and Nature shall not be broken.
For the poison of hatred seated near the heart doubles the burden for the one who suffers the disease he is burdened with his own sorrow, and groans on seeing another's happiness.
Happiness? A good cigar, a good meal, a good cigar and a good woman - or a bad woman it depends on how much happiness you can handle.
I've made an odd discovery. Every time I talk to a savant I feel quite sure that happiness is no longer a possibility. Yet when I talk with my gardener, I'm convinced of the opposite.
Contempt for happiness is usually contempt for other people's happiness, and is an elegant disguise for hatred of the human race.
It is not in the pursuit of happiness that we find fulfillment, it is in the happiness of pursuit.
A wise woman recognizes when her life is out of balance and summons the courage to act to correct it, she knows the meaning of true generosity, happiness is the reward for a life lived in harmony, with a courage and grace.
What we call happiness in the strictest sense comes from the (preferably sudden) satisfaction of needs which have been dammed up to a high degree.
If there were in the world today any large number of people who desired their own happiness more than they desired the unhappiness of others, we could have a paradise in a few years.
Live by this credo: have a little laugh at life and look around you for happiness instead of sadness. Laughter has always brought me out of unhappy situations.
Doing nothing is happiness for children and misery for old men.
A smile is happiness you'll find right under your nose.
The first requisite for the happiness of the people is the abolition of religion.
Life's greatest happiness is to be convinced we are loved.
Happiness is a hard master, particularly other people's happiness.
I do believe that if you haven't learnt about sadness, you cannot appreciate happiness.
Where fear is, happiness is not.
Friendship improves happiness and abates misery, by the doubling of our joy and the dividing of our grief.
To be perfectly happy it does not suffice to possess happiness, it is necessary to have deserved it.
How to gain, how to keep, how to recover happiness is in fact for most men at all times the secret motive of all they do, and of all they are willing to endure.
Procrastination is one of the most common and deadliest of diseases and its toll on success and happiness is heavy.
If all our happiness is bound up entirely in our personal circumstances it is difficult not to demand of life more than it has to give.
Morality is not the doctrine of how we may make ourselves happy, but how we may make ourselves worthy of happiness.
One test of the correctness of educational procedure is the happiness of the child.
Men can only be happy when they do not assume that the object of life is happiness.
Just as a cautious businessman avoids investing all his capital in one concern, so wisdom would probably admonish us also not to anticipate all our happiness from one quarter alone.
Of all forms of caution, caution in love is perhaps the most fatal to true happiness.
Wisdom allows nothing to be good that will not be so forever no man to be happy but he that needs no other happiness than what he has within himself no man to be great or powerful that is not master of himself.
Now and then it's good to pause in our pursuit of happiness and just be happy.
Happiness is the reward we get for living to the highest right we know.
My happiness grows in direct proportion to my acceptance, and in inverse proportion to my expectations.
Beauty is the promise of happiness.
Happiness is not a reward - it is a consequence. Suffering is not a punishment - it is a result.
When ambition ends, happiness begins.
If virtue promises happiness, prosperity and peace, then progress in virtue is progress in each of these for to whatever point the perfection of anything brings us, progress is always an approach toward it.
Fun I love, but too much fun is of all things the most loathsome. Mirth is better than fun, and happiness is better than mirth.
Did perpetual happiness in the Garden of Eden maybe get so boring that eating the apple was justified?
A man is not rightly conditioned until he is a happy, healthy, and prosperous being and happiness, health, and prosperity are the result of a harmonious adjustment of the inner with the outer of the man with his surroundings.
He who has so little knowledge of human nature as to seek happiness by changing anything but his own disposition will waste his life in fruitless efforts.
Imagination disposes of everything it creates beauty, justice, and happiness, which are everything in this world.
Happiness is a byproduct of function, purpose, and conflict those who seek happiness for itself seek victory without war.
Resolve not to be poor: whatever you have, spend less. Poverty is a great enemy to human happiness it certainly destroys liberty, and it makes some virtues impracticable, and others extremely difficult.
Happiness is a how not a what. A talent, not an object.
Happiness is not an ideal of reason, but of imagination.
Bride: A woman with a fine prospect of happiness behind her.
Happiness in this world, when it comes, comes incidentally. Make it the object of pursuit, and it leads us a wild-goose chase, and is never attained. Follow some other object, and very possibly we may find that we have caught happiness without dreaming of it.
Happiness is not a brilliant climax to years of grim struggle and anxiety. It is a long succession of little decisions simply to be happy in the moment.
It were a real increase of human happiness, could all young men from the age of nineteen be covered under barrels, or rendered otherwise invisible and there left to follow their lawful studies and callings, till they emerged, sadder and wiser, at the age of twenty-five.
When you're passionate about something, you want it to be all it can be. But in the endgame of life, I fundamentally believe the key to happiness is letting go of that idea of perfection.
The consuming desire of most human beings is deliberately to plant their whole life in the hands of some other person. I would describe this method of searching for happiness as immature. Development of character consists solely in moving toward self-sufficiency.
The only happiness a brave person ever troubles themselves in asking about, is happiness enough to get their work done.
We're taught to be ashamed of confusion, anger, fear and sadness, and to me they're of equal value to happiness, excitement and inspiration.
A string of excited, fugitive, miscellaneous pleasures is not happiness happiness resides in imaginative reflection and judgment, when the picture of one's life, or of human life, as it truly has been or is, satisfies the will, and is gladly accepted.
Indeed, man wishes to be happy even when he so lives as to make happiness impossible.
In friendship as well as love, ignorance very often contributes more to our happiness than knowledge.
The white man's happiness cannot be purchased by the black man's misery.
While it is important for people to see your promise you must also remember that hope is the keeper of both happiness and disappointment, the father of both progress and failure.
Happiness is a mystery, like religion, and should never be rationalised.
Happiness is the absence of the striving for happiness.
Even in the common affairs of life, in love, friendship, and marriage, how little security have we when we trust our happiness in the hands of others!
The happiness and misery of men depend no less on temper than fortune.
Man is fond of counting his troubles, but he does not count his joys. If he counted them up as he ought to, he would see that every lot has enough happiness provided for it.
The health of the people is really the foundation upon which all their happiness and all their powers as a state depend.
No man chooses evil because it is evil he only mistakes it for happiness, the good he seeks.
Happiness is your own treasure because it lies within you.
My creed is that: Happiness is the only good. The place to be happy is here. The time to be happy is now. The way to be happy is to make others so.
I've learned from experience that the greater part of our happiness or misery depends on our dispositions and not on our circumstances.
To be stupid, selfish, and have good health are three requirements for happiness, though if stupidity is lacking, all is lost.
Life does not agree with philosophy: There is no happiness that is not idleness, and only what is useless is pleasurable.
True happiness arises, in the first place, from the enjoyment of one's self, and in the next, from the friendship and conversation of a few select companions.
Nothing flatters a man as much as the happiness of his wife he is always proud of himself as the source of it.
Why love if losing hurts so much? I have no answers anymore only the life I have lived. The pain now is part of the happiness then.
Ladies of Fashion starve their happiness to feed their vanity, and their love to feed their pride.
The secret to happiness is freedom... And the secret to freedom is courage.
The intense happiness of our union is derived in a high degree from the perfect freedom with which we each follow and declare our own impressions.
People say that money is not the key to happiness, but I always figured if you have enough money, you can have a key made.
We must have courage to bet on our ideas, to take the calculated risk, and to act. Everyday living requires courage if life is to be effective and bring happiness.
When you're happy you find pure joy in your life. There are no regrets in this state of happiness - and that's a goal worth striving for in all areas of your life.
It is not true that suffering ennobles the character happiness does that sometimes, but suffering for the most part, makes men petty and vindictive.
Whether happiness may come or not, one should try and prepare one's self to do without it.
A woman's heart must be of such a size and no larger, else it must be pressed small, like Chinese feet her happiness is to be made as cakes are, by a fixed recipe.
Every possession and every happiness is but lent by chance for an uncertain time, and may therefore be demanded back the next hour.
For happiness one needs security, but joy can spring like a flower even from the cliffs of despair.
Happiness is the natural flower of duty.
No man is happy without a delusion of some kind. Delusions are as necessary to our happiness as realities.
The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions - the little, soon forgotten charities of a kiss or a smile, a kind look or heartfelt compliment.
We exaggerate misfortune and happiness alike. We are never as bad off or as happy as we say we are.
Man's only true happiness is to live in hope of something to be won by him. Reverence something to be worshipped by him, and love something to be cherished by him, forever.
Happiness lies neither in vice nor in virtue but in the manner we appreciate the one and the other, and the choice we make pursuant to our individual organization.
Happiness is good health and a bad memory.
Happiness is different from pleasure. Happiness has something to do with struggling and enduring and accomplishing.
The man who is aware of himself is henceforward independent and he is never bored, and life is only too short, and he is steeped through and through with a profound yet temperate happiness.
It is pretty hard to tell what does bring happiness poverty and wealth have both failed.
I have learned to seek my happiness by limiting my desires, rather than in attempting to satisfy them.
Work and live to serve others, to leave the world a little better than you found it and garner for yourself as much peace of mind as you can. This is happiness.
I am about to be married, and am of course in all the misery of a man in pursuit of happiness.
There is a difference between happiness and wisdom: he that thinks himself the happiest man is really so but he that thinks himself the wisest is generally the greatest fool.
Subordination tends greatly to human happiness. Were we all upon an equality, we should have no other enjoyment than mere animal pleasure.
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
Money can't buy you happiness but it does bring you a more pleasant form of misery.
I thank my God for graciously granting me the opportunity of learning that death is the key which unlocks the door to our true happiness.
Whoever said money can't buy happiness simply didn't know where to go shopping.
Our envy always lasts longer than the happiness of those we envy.
I have this really high priority on happiness and finding something to be happy about.
Self-pity comes so naturally to all of us. The most solid happiness can be shaken by the compassion of a fool.
The happiness of the bee and the dolphin is to exist. For man it is to know that and to wonder at it.
Beauty for some provides escape, who gain a happiness in eyeing the gorgeous buttocks of the ape or Autumn sunsets exquisitely dying.
While we are focusing on fear, worry, or hate, it is not possible for us to be experiencing happiness, enthusiasm or love.
The most worth-while thing is to try to put happiness into the lives of others.
Little islands of human happiness, peace, and prosperity are so exceptional at this point in history that I'm not even sure we can draw lessons from them.
The happiness of one's own heart alone cannot satisfy the soul one must try to include, as necessary to one's own happiness, the happiness of others.
Caring about others, running the risk of feeling, and leaving an impact on people, brings happiness.
Wisdom is the supreme part of happiness.
Plenty of people miss their share of happiness, not because they never found it, but because they didn't stop to enjoy it.
The great thing in the world is not so much to seek happiness as to earn peace and self-respect.
Curiosity is one of the great secrets of happiness.
There is no end of craving. Hence contentment alone is the best way to happiness. Therefore, acquire contentment.
I refuse to accept other people's ideas of happiness for me. As if there's a 'one size fits all' standard for happiness.
I would not give half a guinea to live under one form of government other than another. It is of no moment to the happiness of an individual.
We are long before we are convinced that happiness is never to be found, and each believes it possessed by others, to keep alive the hope of obtaining it for himself.
There is nothing which has yet been contrived by man, by which so much happiness is produced as by a good tavern.
There is nothing, Sir, too little for so little a creature as man. It is by studying little things that we attain the great art of having as little misery and as much happiness as possible.
There is no private house in which people can enjoy themselves so well as at a capital tavern... No, Sir there is nothing which has yet been contrived by man by which so much happiness is produced as by a good tavern or inn.
Happiness is a choice that requires effort at times.
Happiness is the only sanction of life where happiness fails, existence remains a mad and lamentable experiment.
You traverse the world in search of happiness, which is within the reach of every man. A contented mind confers it on all.
There is no true love save in suffering, and in this world we have to choose either love, which is suffering, or happiness. Man is the more man - that is, the more divine - the greater his capacity for suffering, or rather, for anguish.
I can say that I never knew what joy was like until I gave up pursuing happiness, or cared to live until I chose to die. For these two discoveries I am beholden to Jesus.
Happiness serves hardly any other purpose than to make unhappiness possible.
Music should probably provide answers in terms of lyrical content, and giving people a sense of togetherness and oneness, as opposed to being alone in their thoughts and dilemmas or regrets or happiness or whatever.
Our principles are the springs of our actions. Our actions, the springs of our happiness or misery. Too much care, therefore, cannot be taken in forming our principles.
To suppose that any form of government will secure liberty or happiness without any virtue in the people, is a chimerical idea.
There is this difference between happiness and wisdom: he that thinks himself the happiest man, really is so but he that thinks himself the wisest, is generally the greatest fool.
The founders of a new colony, whatever Utopia of human virtue and happiness they might originally project, have invariably recognized it among their earliest practical necessities to allot a portion of the virgin soil as a cemetery, and another portion as the site of a prison.
Money may not buy happiness, but it can damn well give it!
I hump the wild to take it all in, there is no bag limit on happiness.
Every day is a new day, and you'll never be able to find happiness if you don't move on.
Suspicion is not less an enemy to virtue than to happiness he that is already corrupt is naturally suspicious, and he that becomes suspicious will quickly be corrupt.
The world is full of people looking for spectacular happiness while they snub contentment.
A sincere and steadfast co-operation in promoting such a reconstruction of our political system as would provide for the permanent liberty and happiness of the United States.
When we recall the past, we usually find that it is the simplest things - not the great occasions - that in retrospect give off the greatest glow of happiness.
Dancing and running shake up the chemistry of happiness.
Know then this truth, enough for man to know virtue alone is happiness below.
My imagination can picture no fairer happiness than to continue living for art.
I have discovered the secret of happiness - it is work, either with the hands or the head. The moment I have something to do, the draughts are open and my chimney draws, and I am happy.
Power, after love, is the first source of happiness.
Self-esteem is as important to our well-being as legs are to a table. It is essential for physical and mental health and for happiness.
Happiness is inward, and not outward and so, it does not depend on what we have, but on what we are.
My whole working philosophy is that the only stable happiness for mankind is that it shall live married in blessed union to woman-kind - intimacy, physical and psychical between a man and his wife. I wish to add that my state of bliss is by no means perfect.
The secret of happiness is something to do.
We never taste happiness in perfection, our most fortunate successes are mixed with sadness.
If you ever find happiness by hunting for it, you will find it, as the old woman did her lost spectacles, safe on her own nose all the time.
I take it that the good of mankind means the attainment, by every man, of all the happiness which he can enjoy without diminishing the happiness of his fellow men.
People are surprised at how down-to-earth I am. I like to stay home on Friday nights and listen to 'The Art of Happiness' by the Dalai Lama.
Happiness is within. It has nothing to do with how much applause you get or how many people praise you. Happiness comes when you believe that you have done something truly meaningful.
Happiness always looks small while you hold it in your hands, but let it go, and you learn at once how big and precious it is.
Love is not a feeling of happiness. Love is a willingness to sacrifice.
Character is the basis of happiness and happiness the sanction of character.
Knowledge of what is possible is the beginning of happiness.
We believe, as our founders did, that 'the pursuit of happiness' depends upon individual liberty and individual liberty requires limited government.
One's work usually occupies more than half of one's waking life. Choosing work that does not bring happiness will lead to a life that is mostly disappointing.
I understand by this passion the union of desire, friendship, and tenderness, which is inflamed by a single female, which prefers her to the rest of her sex, and which seeks her possession as the supreme or the sole happiness of our being.
What would there be in a story of happiness? Only what prepares it, only what destroys it can be told.
A wise woman never yields by appointment. It should always be an unforeseen happiness.
Completeness? Happiness? These words don't come close to describing my emotions. There truly is nothing I can say to capture what motherhood means to me, particularly given my medical history.
When a man has lost all happiness, he's not alive. Call him a breathing corpse.
Happiness is secured through virtue it is a good attained by man's own will.
You take away all the other luxuries in life, and if you can make someone smile and laugh, you have given the most special gift: happiness.
Happiness: a good bank account, a good cook, and a good digestion.
Happiness is your dentist telling you it won't hurt and then having him catch his hand in the drill.
False happiness renders men stern and proud, and that happiness is never communicated. True happiness renders them kind and sensible, and that happiness is always shared.
Happiness isn't getting what you want, it's wanting what you got.
What's the use of happiness? It can't buy you money.
Although the skills aren't hard to learn, finding the happiness and finding the satisfaction and finding fulfillment in continuously serving somebody else something good to eat, is what makes a really good restaurant.
Genuine happiness can only be achieved when we transform our way of life from the unthinking pursuit of pleasure to one committed to enriching our inner lives, when we focus on 'being more' rather than simply having more.
My whole thing is to agree to disagree and to have respect because nothing can really be changed and you wouldn't want to ruin their happiness - even if that happiness is ignorance.
The greater part of our happiness or misery depends on our dispositions and not our circumstances.
The search for happiness is one of the chief sources of unhappiness.
You know the passage where Scarlett voices her happiness that her mother is dead, so that she can't see what a bad girl Scarlett has become? Well, that's me.
A good way I know to find happiness, is to not bore a hole to fit the plug.
And one who is just of his own free will shall not lack for happiness and he will never come to utter ruin.
To desire and strive to be of some service to the world, to aim at doing something which shall really increase the happiness and welfare and virtue of mankind - this is a choice which is possible for all of us and surely it is a good haven to sail for.
To be obliged to beg our daily happiness from others bespeaks a more lamentable poverty than that of him who begs his daily bread.
I'm fulfilled in what I do. I never thought that a lot of money or fine clothes - the finer things of life - would make you happy. My concept of happiness is to be filled in a spiritual sense.
One of the indictments of civilizations is that happiness and intelligence are so rarely found in the same person.
Grief at the absence of a loved one is happiness compared to life with a person one hates.
If you have not taken the time to define what happiness means to you, what have your spent your whole life pursuing?
There is only one way to achieve happiness on this terrestrial ball, and that is to have either a clear conscience or none at all.
I want anyone who believes in life, liberty, pursuit of happiness to succeed. And I want any force, any person, any element of an overarching Big Government that would stop your success, I want that organization, that element or that person to fail. I want you to succeed.
Existence is a strange bargain. Life owes us little we owe it everything. The only true happiness comes from squandering ourselves for a purpose.
So long as you don't feel life's paltry and a miserable business, the rest doesn't matter, happiness or unhappiness.
I might have some character traits that some might see as innocence or naive. That's because I discovered peace and happiness in my soul. And with this knowledge, I also see the beauty of human life.
Unhappiness is something we are never taught about we are taught to expect happiness, but never a Plan B to use to use when the happiness doesn't arrive.
Happiness, that grand mistress of the ceremonies in the dance of life, impels us through all its mazes and meanderings, but leads none of us by the same route.
Always remember that the most important thing in a good marriage is not happiness, but stability.
Happiness is mental harmony unhappiness is mental inharmony.
Happiness is a thing to be practiced, like the violin.
I know not why there is such a melancholy feeling attached to the remembrance of past happiness, except that we fear that the future can have nothing so bright as the past.
Music is the refuge of souls ulcerated by happiness.
When I was waiting tables, washing dishes, or mowing lawns for money, I never thought of myself as stuck in some station in life. I was on my own path, my own journey, an American journey where I could think for myself, decide for myself, define happiness for myself.
Romance and novel paint beauty in colors more charming than nature, and describe a happiness that humans never taste. How deceptive and destructive are those pictures of consummate bliss!
Happiness is obsolete: uneconomic.
A pencil and rubber are of more use to thought than a battalion of assistants. To happiness the same applies as to truth: one does not have it, but is in it.
Happiness is an attitude of mind, born of the simple determination to be happy under all outward circumstances.
Grief knits two hearts in closer bonds than happiness ever can and common sufferings are far stronger links than common joys.
Now I believe that lovers should be draped in flowers and laid entwined together on a bed of clover and left there to sleep, left there to dream of their happiness.
Some of us might find happiness if we quit struggling so desperately for it.
Actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness wrong as they tend to produce the reverse of happiness. By happiness is intended pleasure and the absence of pain.
I wish people could acheive what they think would bring them happiness in order for them to realize that thats not really what happiness is.
Such happiness as life is capable of comes from the full participation of all our powers in the endeavor to wrest from each changing situations of experience its own full and unique meaning.
The secret to true happiness is a combination of low expectations and insensitivity.
I saw that all beings are fated to happiness: action is not life, but a way of wasting some force, an enervation. Morality is the weakness of the brain.
Crying is cleansing. There's a reason for tears, happiness or sadness.
Success is getting and achieving what you want. Happiness is wanting and being content with what you get.
Just stop for a minute and you'll realize you're happy just being. I think it's the pursuit that screws up happiness. If we drop the pursuit, it's right here.
One mustn't ask apple trees for oranges, France for sun, women for love, life for happiness.
Oh, if I had been loved at the age of seventeen, what an idiot I would be today. Happiness is like smallpox: if you catch it too soon, it can completely ruin your constitution.
We are built to conquer environment, solve problems, achieve goals, and we find no real satisfaction or happiness in life without obstacles to conquer and goals to achieve.
Thus happiness depends, as nature shows, less on exterior things than most suppose.
Alas! if the principles of contentment are not within us, the height of station and worldly grandeur will as soon add a cubit to a man's stature as to his happiness.
Happiness and virtue rest upon each other the best are not only the happiest, but the happiest are usually the best.
Tell him, on the contrary, that he needs, in the interest of his own happiness, to walk in the path of humility and self-control, and he will be indifferent, or even actively resentful.
An act of goodness is of itself an act of happiness. No reward coming after the event can compare with the sweet reward that went with it.
People truly reaching across boundaries - be they religious or race, political or geographic. A state that is sincerely civil and respectful of each individual's pathway toward life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness will be our goal.
God's children and their happiness are my reasons for being.
Happiness in the present is only shattered by comparison with the past.
Happiness is a sunbeam which may pass through a thousand bosoms without losing a particle of its original ray nay, when it strikes on a kindred heart, like the converged light on a mirror, it reflects itself with redoubled brightness. It is not perfected till it is shared.
In theory there is a possibility of perfect happiness: To believe in the indestructible element within one, and not to strive towards it.
I really love being alive. I love my family and my work. I love the opportunity I have to do things. That's what happiness is.
Happiness is a monstrosity! Punished are those who seek it.
Happiness is a very small desk and a very big wastebasket.
Everyone has their own way of expressing happiness.
My faith helps me understand that circumstances don't dictate my happiness, my inner peace.
If thou be industrious to procure wealth, be generous in the disposal of it. Man never is so happy as when he giveth happiness unto another.
What ever our wandering our happiness will always be found within a narrow compass, and in the middle of the objects more immediately within our reach.
There is no cosmetic for beauty like happiness.
Today, we stand as a united country and are much closer to the ideals set forth in our Constitution that all men are created equal that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Offspring, the due performance on religious rites, faithful service, highest conjugal happiness and heavenly bliss for the ancestors and oneself, depend on one's wife alone.
Objects we ardently pursue bring little happiness when gained most of our pleasures come from unexpected sources.
For this generation, ours, life is nuclear survival, liberty is human rights, the pursuit of happiness is a planet whose resources are devoted to the physical and spiritual nourishment of its inhabitants.
Happiness is dependent on self-discipline. We are the biggest obstacles to our own happiness. It is much easier to do battle with society and with others than to fight our own nature.
The will of man is his happiness.
The Constitution guarantees us our rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That's all. It doesn't guarantee our rights to charity.
Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.
Everyone needs a certain amount of money. Beyond that, we pursue money because we know how to obtain it. We don't necessarily know how to obtain happiness.
I've never felt like I was in the cookie business. I've always been in a feel good feeling business. My job is to sell joy. My job is to sell happiness. My job is to sell an experience.
This happiness consisted of nothing else but the harmony of the few things around me with my own existence, a feeling of contentment and well-being that needed no changes and no intensification.
The happiness of the creature consists in rejoicing in God, by which also God is magnified and exalted.
The said truth is that it is the greatest happiness of the greatest number that is the measure of right and wrong.
Happiness, contentment, the health and growth of the soul, depend, as men have proved over and over again, upon some simple issue, some single turning of the soul.
Derive happiness in oneself from a good day's work, from illuminating the fog that surrounds us.
There are as many kinds of beauty as there are habitual ways of seeking happiness.
Happiness... consists in giving, and in serving others.
Off with you! You're a happy fellow, for you'll give happiness and joy to many other people. There is nothing better or greater than that!
There can be no happiness if the things we believe in are different from the things we do.
You get to a certain age where you prepare yourself for happiness. Sometimes you never remember to actually get happy.
Sorrow happens, hardship happens, the hell with it, who never knew the price of happiness, will not be happy.
Happiness is working with Jack Lemmon.
Happiness is spiritual, born of truth and love. It is unselfish therefore it cannot exist alone, but requires all mankind to share it.
When you relinquish the desire to control your future, you can have more happiness.
Happiness is understanding that friendship is more precious than mere things, more precious than getting your own way, more precious than being in situations where true principles are not at stake.
It is one of my sources of happiness never to desire a knowledge of other people's business.
The British do not expect happiness. I had the impression, all the time that I lived there, that they do not want to be happy they want to be right.
Values are principles and ideas that bring meaning to the seemingly mundane experience of life. A meaningful life that ultimately brings happiness and pride requires you to respond to temptations as well as challenges with honor, dignity, and courage.
From their teenage years on, children are considerably more capable of causing parents unhappiness than bringing them happiness. That is one reason parents who rely on their children for happiness make both their children and themselves miserable.
But happiness is no respecter of persons.
He who avoids complaint invites happiness.
Happiness and peace will come to earth only as the light of love and human compassion enter the souls of men.
The ultimate end of human acts is eudaimonia, happiness in the sense of living well, which all men desire all acts are but different means chosen to arrive at it.
I always seem to have a vague feeling that he is a Satan among musicians, a fallen angel in the darkness who is perpetually seeking to fight his way back to happiness.
But what is after all the happiness of mere power? There is a greater happiness possible than to be lord of heaven and earth that is the happiness of being truly loved.
Since every man desires happiness, it is evidently no small matter whether he conceives of happiness in terms of work or of enjoyment.
The office of government is not to confer happiness, but to give men the opportunity to work out happiness for themselves.
What can be added to the happiness of a man who is in health, out of debt, and has a clear conscience?
Ultimately, all human activities have as their goal the realization of happiness. Why, then, have we ended up producing the opposite result? Could the underlying cause be our failure to correctly understand the true nature of happiness?
I can be forced to live without happiness, but I will never consent to live without honor.
Money, if it does not bring you happiness, will at least help you be miserable in comfort.
It's enough to indulge and to be selfish but true happiness is really when you start giving back.
There is no happiness in having or in getting, but only in giving.
Happiness is no respecter of persons.
To be able to throw one's self away for the sake of a moment, to be able to sacrifice years for a woman's smile - that is happiness.
I don't know the true meaning of happiness.
Those who won our independence... valued liberty as an end and as a means. They believed liberty to be the secret of happiness and courage to be the secret of liberty.
Maturity - among other things, the unclouded happiness of the child at play, who takes it for granted that he is at one with his play-mates.
No one is guaranteed happiness. You can pursue it, but if you happen to find success along the way on that road to happiness, Conservatives believe you should not be demonized or penalized for it.
Happiness comes when we test our skills towards some meaningful purpose.
When a small child, I thought that success spelled happiness. I was wrong, happiness is like a butterfly which appears and delights us for one brief moment, but soon flits away.
Happiness isn't happiness unless there's a violin-playing goat.
I certainly wasn't happy. Happiness has to do with reason, and only reason earns it. What I was given was the thing you can't earn, and can't keep, and often don't even recognize at the time I mean joy.
Happiness is perfume, you can't pour it on somebody else without getting a few drops on yourself.
I have often met with happiness after some imprudent step which ought to have brought ruin upon me, and although passing a vote of censure upon myself I would thank God for his mercy.
Try to make at least one person happy every day. If you cannot do a kind deed, speak a kind word. If you cannot speak a kind word, think a kind thought. Count up, if you can, the treasure of happiness that you would dispense in a week, in a year, in a lifetime!
I don't understand why Europeans and South Americans can take more sophistication. Why is it that Americans need to hear their happiness major and their tragedy minor, and as jazzy as they can handle is a seventh chord? Are they not experiencing complex emotions?
The art of living does not consist in preserving and clinging to a particular mode of happiness, but in allowing happiness to change its form without being disappointed by the change happiness, like a child, must be allowed to grow up.
The ultimate end of education is happiness or a good human life, a life enriched by the possession of every kind of good, by the enjoyment of every type of satisfaction.
There is no fulfillment in things whatsoever. And I think one of the reasons that depression reigns supreme amongst the rich and famous is some of them thought that maybe those things would bring them happiness. But what, in fact, does is having a cause, having a passion. And that's really what gives life's true meaning.
We've got people looking at our seamy side and our sad side a lot of the time because that's easier. It's much more difficult to make a film about happiness with lots of jokes in it.
The most exciting happiness is the happiness generated by forces beyond your control.
Happiness is the longing for repetition.
The Bluebird of Happiness long absent from his life, Ned is visited by the Chicken of Depression.
It takes great wit and interest and energy to be happy. The pursuit of happiness is a great activity. One must be open and alive. It is the greatest feat man has to accomplish.
If you are kept in ignorance of the true way and permit yourself to rely upon and be guided by the opinion of imperfect man, you can never gain the riches that will bring you peace and lasting happiness.
Fate often puts all the material for happiness and prosperity into a man's hands just to see how miserable he can make himself with them.
Holiness, not happiness, is the chief end of man.
Happiness is nothing but temporary moments here and there - and I love those. But I would be bored out of my mind if I were happy all the time.
I've run into certain geniuses of individualism - they are very few and far between - who live their lives completely on their own terms they are very powerful and have a great amount of happiness. We all should aspire to that.
As to happiness in this life it is hardly compatible with that diminished respect which ever attends the relinquishing of labour.
No human being can really understand another, and no one can arrange another's happiness.
There is no correlation between happiness and amounts of money.
Even when they have nothing, the Irish emit a kind of happiness, a joy.
And of all illumination which human reason can give, none is comparable to the discovery of what we are, our nature, our obligations, what happiness we are capable of, and what are the means of attaining it.
As a child is indulged or checked in its early follies, a ground is generally laid for the happiness or misery of the future man.
Well, there are two kinds of happiness, grounded and ungrounded. Ungrounded happiness is cheesy and not based on reality. Grounded happiness is informed happiness based on the knowledge that the world sometimes sucks, but even then you have to believe in yourself.
To play someone who is who they are because of the happiness and contentedness that they've known in their life is interesting because of sort of how banal it is.
It is now possible to quantify people's levels of happiness pretty accurately by asking them, by observation, and by measuring electrical activity in the brain, in degrees from terrible pain to sublime joy.
Oh, I adored Mickey Mouse when I was a child. He was the emblem of happiness and funniness. You went to the movies then, you saw two movies and a short. When Mickey Mouse came on the screen and there was his big head, my sister said she had to hold onto me. I went berserk.
I adored Mickey Mouse when I was a child. He was the emblem of happiness and funniness.
Happiness is a matter of one's most ordinary and everyday mode of consciousness being busy and lively and unconcerned with self.
It is not the possession of truth, but the success which attends the seeking after it, that enriches the seeker and brings happiness to him.
It's horrible when people are only interested in buying labels, because it doesn't bring them the happiness they think it will.
An institution or reform movement that is not selfish, must originate in the recognition of some evil that is adding to the sum of human suffering, or diminishing the sum of happiness.
I learned from a very young age that if I pursued the things that truly excited me, that they would reward in more important ways, like happiness.
I enjoy being happy every day, and hopefully you can hear my happiness in my music. Life is beautiful.
All people desire what they believe will make them happy. If a person is not full of desire for God, we can only conclude that he is engaged with another happiness.
One must never look for happiness: one meets it by the way.
Most people ask for happiness on condition. Happiness can only be felt if you don't set any condition.
True religion... is giving and finding one's happiness by bringing happiness into the lives of others.
There is no happiness in love, except at the end of an English novel.
When God loves a creature he wants the creature to know the highest happiness and the deepest misery He wants him to know all that being alive can bring. That is his best gift. There is no happiness save in understanding the whole.
Happiness is a wine of the rarest vintage, and seems insipid to a vulgar taste.
I have my moments. Ever since I was a boy, I never was someone who was at ease with happiness. Too often I embrace introspection and self-doubt. I wish I could embrace the good things.
People will survive, and they will find happiness. Happiness only comes when you're not looking for it.
Every poll about the Left, the Right, and happiness reveals that the farther left one goes, the less happy the person is likely to be.
Happiness held is the seed Happiness shared is the flower.
A good cook is like a sorceress who dispenses happiness.
I am happy as happiness goes, for a woman who has so many memories and who lives the lonely life of an actress.
Lucky that man whose children make his happiness in life and not his grief, the anguished disappointment of his hopes.
There is a set of religious, or rather moral, writings which teach that virtue is the certain road to happiness, and vice to misery in this world. A very wholesome and comfortable doctrine, and to which we have but one objection, namely, that it is not true.
America has believed that in differentiation, not in uniformity, lies the path of progress. It acted on this belief it has advanced human happiness, and it has prospered.
Remember the rights of the savage, as we call him. Remember that the happiness of his humble home, remember that the sanctity of life in the hill villages of Afghanistan, among the winter snows, is as inviolable in the eye of Almighty God, as can be your own.
There is no happiness for people at the expense of other people.
It is the personality of the mistress that the home expresses. Men are forever guests in our homes, no matter how much happiness they may find there.
I try to stress to my children that buying something never leads to true happiness.
Getting married, for me, was the best thing I ever did. I was suddenly beset with an immense sense of release, that we have something more important than our separate selves, and that is the marriage. There's immense happiness that can come from working towards that.
The pursuit of happiness, which American citizens are obliged to undertake, tends to involve them in trying to perpetuate the moods, tastes and aptitudes of youth.
Why does watching a dog be a dog fill one with happiness?
Happiness is always a coincidence.
I will always stay close to all compatriots, and share together the happiness and suffering.
All happiness depends on a leisurely breakfast.
My idea of perfect happiness is a healthy family, peace between nations, and all the critics die.
The gratification of desire is not happiness.
Happiness is a choice. You can choose to be happy. There's going to be stress in life, but it's your choice whether you let it affect you or not.
Joy, rather than happiness, is the goal of life, for joy is the emotion which accompanies our fulfilling our natures as human beings. It is based on the experience of one's identity as a being of worth and dignity.
That is happiness to be dissolved into something complete and great.
You've got to ask! Asking is, in my opinion, the world's most powerful - and neglected - secret to success and happiness.
I never was someone who was at ease with happiness.
It was as if all of the happiness, all of the magic of this blissful hour had flowed together into these stirring, bittersweet tones and flowed away, becoming temporal and transitory once more.
You believe happiness to be derived from the place in which once you have been happy, but in truth it is centered in ourselves.
We all have a hungry heart, and one of the things we hunger for is happiness. So as much as I possibly could, I stayed where I was happy. I spent a great deal of time in my younger years just writing and reading, walking around the woods in Ohio, where I grew up.
My life has run from misery to happiness.
Happiness? No, it's not there for me.
Friendship is a strong and habitual inclination in two persons to promote the good and happiness of one another.
Life finds its purpose and fulfillment in the expansion of happiness.
Those who seek happiness miss it, and those who discuss it, lack it.
Try to put your happiness before anyone else's, because you may never have done so in your entire life, if you really think about it, if you are really honest with yourself.
A comfortable house is a great source of happiness. It ranks immediately after health and a good conscience.
The purpose of human life and the sense of happiness is to give the maximum what the man is able to give.
The sound of laughter is like the vaulted dome of a temple of happiness.
Happiness is an imaginary condition, formerly attributed by the living to the dead, now usually attributed by adults to children, and by children to adults.
The Dalai Lama. He is a very wise man of great inner peace who believes that happiness is the purpose of our lives. Through his teachings and leadership, he continues to make this world a better place in which to live.
It's afterwards you realize that the feeling of happiness you had with a man didn't necessarily prove that you loved him.
When we were together, I loved you deeply and you gave me so much happiness I can never repay you.
You know, I think we Indians are afraid to show and celebrate our happiness, lest things change around. But I feel that it's okay to be sad and okay to show when you are happy.
I've gotten to a point, where I realize that happiness doesn't come from the outside.
It is work, work that one delights in, that is the surest guarantor of happiness. But even here it is a work that has to be earned by labor in one's earlier years. One should labor so hard in youth that everything one does subsequently is easy by comparison.
What if I couldn't handle people's opinions of me? I know that shouldn't dictate a person's degree of peace or happiness in life, but the problem is, I chose a business saturated in judgment.
So, my happiness doesn't come from money or fame. My happiness comes from seeing life without struggle.
Happiness is not a state to arrive at, but a manner of traveling.
There is an old saying that money can't buy happiness. If it could, I would buy myself four hits every game.
Remember that happiness is as contagious as gloom. It should be the first duty of those who are happy to let others know of their gladness.
I admit I can't shake the idea that there is virtue in suffering, that there is a sort of psychic economy, whereby if you embrace success, happiness and comfort, these things have to be paid for.
Happiness comes of the capacity to feel deeply, to enjoy simply, to think freely, to risk life, to be needed.
I see nothing wrong with the human trait to desire. In fact, I consider it integral to our success mechanism. Becoming attached to what we desire is what causes the trouble. If you must have it in order to be happy, then you are denying the happiness of the here and now.
To show a child what once delighted you, to find the child's delight added to your own - this is happiness.
I believe that my clothes can give people a better image of themselves - that it can increase their feelings of confidence and happiness.
The greatest happiness of the greatest number is the foundation of morals and legislation.
I don't think that sin and pursuing happiness are not necessarily the same thing.
How can you tell somebody whose is pursuing happiness that they're somehow not American when that was the very first promise that America made?
The pursuit of happiness is a most ridiculous phrase: if you pursue happiness you'll never find it.
Here is my prescription to heal all wounds. Watch the film 'Funny Girl' at least five times, eat at least 45 chocolate bars, and hang out with all those friends you blew off to hang out with your ex. I truly believe that, through a combination of Nutella, old pals and Barbra Streisand, we can achieve happiness and, very probably, world peace.
It is the paradox of life that the way to miss pleasure is to seek it first. The very first condition of lasting happiness is that a life should be full of purpose, aiming at something outside self.
Liberty is to the collective body, what health is to every individual body. Without health no pleasure can be tasted by man without liberty, no happiness can be enjoyed by society.
My parents- they've been my biggest influences and supporters since day one. They teach me every day that happiness comes from within and not from something outside of your heart.
I think the key to happiness is allowing ourselves to not feel bad or guilty for feeling it, and letting it be contagious. And to not be dependent on other people to create your own happiness.
The discovery of a new dish confers more happiness on humanity, than the discovery of a new star.
For me, love is happiness and inspiration.
It is also rarer to find happiness in a man surrounded by the miracles of technology than among people living in the desert of the jungle and who by the standards set by our society would be considered destitute and out of touch.
People are chasing cash, not happiness. When you chase money, you're going to lose. You're just going to. Even if you get the money, you're not going to be happy.
My mother is a big believer in being responsible for your own happiness. She always talked about finding joy in small moments and insisted that we stop and take in the beauty of an ordinary day. When I stop the car to make my kids really see a sunset, I hear my mother's voice and smile.
I think happiness comes from self-acceptance. We all try different things, and we find some comfortable sense of who we are. We look at our parents and learn and grow and move on. We change.
There is no excellence without labor. One cannot dream oneself into either usefulness or happiness.
And perfect happiness? Man, that's a... the pool is about 92 degrees, the Jacuzzi is about 102 and an avocado farm.
I guess happiness is not a state you want to be in all the time.
When you're in love, you're so happy that you want to tell people about it. But now I have to censor myself. You need to protect the happiness you have.
I've worked on films where the budgets are almost limitless and you're in trailers that are bigger than a hotel room. You're taken care of and the food is amazing, the quality of the job is amazing and then you work on smaller things but it never dictates my happiness or my willingness to go to work.
Worldly wealth is the Devil's bait and those whose minds feed upon riches recede, in general, from real happiness, in proportion as their stores increase, as the moon, when she is fullest, is farthest from the sun.
One thing I've been happy as peach pie about - because I'm all about the children and the happiness of a woman because that makes the happiness of the home - is that nannies, day cares and babysitters are all collapsing, which is forcing moms and dads to raise their children at home.
I can't believe it's been four years now, and from watching that pilot, we really all looked like babies. It's unbelievable just how far everything has come. I'm happier now than I've ever been on the show and in my life. I really owe so much of my happiness to 'Glee.'
The mindset of chasing that next #1 record doesn't exist for me anymore. It's more about being a well-rounded entertainer than being a pop artist. Obviously, it would be wonderful to have a hit record but I don't base my happiness on that anymore. It's about the accomplishment of a project that satisfies me. I just want to enjoy the ride.
The day when a sportsman stops thinking above all else of the happiness in his own effort and the intoxication of the power and physical balance he derives from it, the day when he lets considerations of vanity or interest take over, on this day his ideal will die.
There is something in the pang of change More than the heart can bear, Unhappiness remembering happiness.
Pleasure only starts once the worm has got into the fruit, to become delightful happiness must be tainted with poison.
I think the secret to happiness is having a Teflon soul. Whatever comes your way, you either let it slide or you cook with it.
I am more and more convinced that our happiness or our unhappiness depends far more on the way we meet the events of life than on the nature of those events themselves.
My travels led me to where I am today. Sometimes these steps have felt painful, difficult, but led me to greater happiness and opportunites.
If someday they say of me that in my work I have contributed something to the welfare and happiness of my fellow man, I shall be satisfied.
My mother was a public school teacher in Virginia, and we didn't have any money, we just survived on happiness, on being a happy family.
I think a child may be the only thing that could give me true happiness.
My happiness doesn't come from money or fame. My happiness comes from seeing life without struggle.
It was physically difficult, adjusting to wheelchair life, but I remember a great relief and happiness that I was finally getting somewhere, finding musicians to work with that were sympathetic.
I see happiness as a by-product. I don't think you can pursue happiness. I think that phrase is one of the very few mistakes the Founding Fathers made.
I'm passionate about everything, like my family and friends. Anybody I am talkin' to is gonna be bona fide real. There is no substitution for happiness. Period.
Genuine happiness comes from within, and often it comes in spontaneous feelings of joy.
I don't really care how I am remembered as long as I bring happiness and joy to people.
I am deeply convinced that happiness does not exist in this world.
I love walking down the street and seeing faces and drama and happiness and sadness and dirt and cleanliness.
So even though I consider myself a fairly upbeat person, energetic and things like that, I never do very well on happiness tests.
Those in the west who dismiss the repressiveness of laws against women in countries like Iran, no matter how benign their intentions, present a condescending view not just of the religion but also of women living in Muslim majority countries, as if the desire for choice and happiness is the monopoly of women in the west.
I don't have the recipe for happiness, but I think the engine is simply having the desire.
When I was a little kid, all I wanted to do was to escape what I thought was the country and get to a city. Probably film and television had influenced me so much, I really thought the key to happiness was living a very artificial life in a penthouse in New York with martini glasses.
Could a government dare to set out with happiness as its goal? Now that there are accepted scientific proofs, it would be easy to audit the progress of national happiness annually, just as we monitor money and GDP.
Each person is living for himself his own happiness is all he can ever personally feel.
Every happiness is a hostage to fortune.
Joe E. Lewis said, 'Money doesn't buy happiness but it calms the nerves.' And that is how I feel about a film being well-received.
The cause of justice is the cause of humanity. Its advocates should overflow with universal good will. We should love this cause, for it conduces to the general happiness of mankind.
People need to realise what real happiness and success is, because success as an actor is fleeting. You can be up there one day and gone the next.
Your dear baby has died innocent and blameless, and has been called away by an all wise and merciful Creator, most probably from a life to misery and misfortune, and most certainly to one of happiness and bliss.
Every man judges his own happiness and satisfaction with life in terms of his possession or lack of possession of those things that he considers worthwhile and valuable.
As long as I am given the opportunity to keep performing and keep exploring in whatever medium, I'll be happy. As long as I get to spend time with my family, I'll be happy. As long as I can write in some form, I'll be happy. It is the essential things like that I equate with happiness.
What I mean by that is that the point of life, as I see it, is not to write books or scale mountains or sail oceans, but to achieve happiness, and preferably an unselfish happiness.
I think people really marry far too much it is such a lottery after all, and for a poor woman a very doubtful happiness.
Heartache is very fertile ground for song-making but so is happiness, so is absolute bliss.
There once was a demographic survey done to determine if money was connected to happiness and Ireland was the only place where this did not turn out to be true.
Goodness does not more certainly make men happy than happiness makes them good.
I think money is essential to happiness and right now I wouldn't want to be anyone other than Wilbur Smith - I've had a fantastic life, rewarded far more heavily than I deserve. Maybe I'd like to be J. K. Rowling, but I'll settle for second best.
Aye, I'm tellin' ye, happiness is one of the few things in this world that doubles every time you share it with someone else.
You can have a lot of unhappiness by not having money, but the reverse is no guarantee of happiness.
Happiness must be cultivated. It is like character. It is not a thing to be safely let alone for a moment, or it will run to weeds.
When you analyze happiness, it turns out that the way you spend your time is extremely important.
Households, cities, countries, and nations have enjoyed great happiness when a single individual has taken heed of the Good and Beautiful. Such people not only liberate themselves they fill those they meet with a free mind.
This nation is notorious for its ability to make or fake anything cheaply. 'Made-in-China' goods now fill homes around the world. But our giant country has a small problem. We can't manufacture the happiness of our people.
Trifles make up the happiness or the misery of human life.
Happiness, or misery, is in the mind. It is the mind that lives.
Even if happiness forgets you a little bit, never completely forget about it.
I've often thought if I didn't make my marriage work, I would have failed at my one true shot at happiness.
How often we fail to realize our good fortune in living in a country where happiness is more than a lack of tragedy.
We all agree that its fit to be as Happy as we can, and we need no Instructor to teach us this Knowledge, 'tis born with us, and is inseparable from our Being, but we very much need to be Inform'd what is the true Way to Happiness.
If I have to apply five turns to the screw each day for the happiness of Argentina, I will do it.
Feminism's agenda is basic: It asks that women not be forced to choose between public justice and private happiness.
Scarcely one person in a thousand is capable of tasting the happiness of others.
Happiness lies first of all in health.
The slave may be happy, but happiness is not enough.
Happiness, I do not know where to turn to discover you on earth, in the air or the sky yet I know you exist and are no futile dream.
The greatest happiness comes from being vitally interested in something that excites all your energies.
Life is made up of small pleasures. Happiness is made up of those tiny successes. The big ones come too infrequently. And if you don't collect all these tiny successes, the big ones don't really mean anything.
The greatest happiness is to transform one's feelings into action.
I love acting. It's my playground, it let's me explore. But my happiness in this world - my level of peace - is never going to be dictated by acting.
But my happiness in this world - my level of peace - is never going to be dictated by acting.
Seek happiness for its own sake, and you will not find it seek for duty, and happiness will follow as the shadow comes with the sunshine.
I had to try and find a way to express happiness without sounding corny.
History shows that our way of life is the stronger way. From it has come more wealth, more industry, more happiness, more human enlightenment than from any other way.
Happiness doesn't depend on how much you have to enjoy, but how much you enjoy what you have.
There is even a happiness - that makes the heart afraid.
The pop musicians often leave meaning in the dust and substitute it for cartoons. The deeper artists - the grunge artists in the world and the emoticon people - tend to leave all of the happiness out of life like it just doesn't exist.
I don't like Paris so much, and it's only eight shows. I mean, don't tell them that, of course. But everyone always thinks they're so important. And I'm sure they are. But to me, my happiness is more important.
When Kate was born, she was born into a world of joy and happiness and confidence. The difference between the children is night and day. She's happy, she's thriving, she's full of self-confidence. I tell her she's beautiful every day before I send her off to school.
Shall I give you my recipe for happiness? I find everything useful and nothing indispensable. I find everything wonderful and nothing miraculous. I reverence the body. I avoid first causes like the plague.
I visited those friends who'd just had a baby, and she was washing dishes and he was cleaning the house, and I burst with happiness. And in their minds, they were in this terrible domestic rut.
The Divine of the Lord in heaven is love, for the reason that love is receptive of all things of heaven, such as peace, intelligence, wisdom and happiness.
Is anyone serious about the politics of happiness? David Cameron dipped a toe in the water, using the word lightly, but denying the hard policies it implies. Labour shies away from it, but should take up the challenge.
Happiness is a real, objective phenomenon, scientifically verifiable. That means people and whole societies can now be measured over time and compared accurately with one another. Causes and cures for unhappiness can be quantified.
Inequality makes everyone unhappy, the poor most of all, and that is well within the remit of the state. More money gives less extra happiness the richer we get, yet we are addicted to earning and spending more every year.
Inside every adult there's still a child that lingers. We're happiness merchants - giving people the opportunity to dream like children.
You find happiness where you find it.
I love my family and I had a very wonderful, magical childhood. But New Jersey was actually a very cold place. There was such an intense concentration of wealth, and such a low concentration of any actual human happiness.
The People have a right to the Truth as they have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
While I gave up God a long time ago, I never shook the habit of wanting to believe in something. So I replaced my creed of everlasting life with life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
It's up to you to be responsible for how you feel if you're not happy. Your happiness lies in your hands. You can't rely on a man to make you happy or complete you. That starts with you.
I don't get a sense of American pride. I just get a sense that everyone is here, battling the same thing - that around the world everybody's after the same thing, just some minor piece of happiness each day.
Happiness, for you we walk on a knife edge. To the eyes you are a flickering light, to the feet, thin ice that cracks and so may no one touch you who loves you.
My greatest happiness is to serve my gracious King and Country and I am envious only of glory for if it be a sin to covet glory I am the most offending soul alive.
I'm actually tougher on myself as I get older. It's a vicious cycle. The things that are important in life are the things that you can't buy in life: love, health and happiness. I say that, and I believe that, and I try to live that.
I will never forget my beautiful days with you in Shanklin, they are certainly the most pleasant ones of my life. Look, I have tears in my eyes just to think about it. I am furious to be here, it is the end of happiness for a whole year.
The most simple things can bring the most happiness.
You need characters who want things. They want love, they want recognition, they want happiness.
The women I know who have children and have careers, they seem to be very happy. They love their children and they love their jobs. But happiness comes out of being willing to do your work in your twenties to find out who you are, what you love.
Real happiness is cheap enough, yet how dearly we pay for its counterfeit.
Suspicion is far more to be wrong than right more often unjust than just. It is no friend to virtue, and always an enemy to happiness.
The idea that happiness could have a share in beauty would be too much of a good thing.
Getting pregnant wasn't easy, and I found that devastating. I really beat myself up for waiting so long when I'd always wanted children and family had been the basis of my happiness my whole life.
I get way too much happiness from good food.
The secret of happiness is the determination to be happy always, rather than wait for outer circumstances to make one happy.
Man must search for what is right, and let happiness come on its own.
Musicians are probably the most uncomfortable people in themselves in the world. Happiness, I think, only exists when you're a child and once you go past 11, unfortunately it's gone.
We learn the inner secret of happiness when we learn to direct our inner drives, our interest and our attention to something besides ourselves.
You do the right thing even if it makes you feel bad. The purpose of life is not to be happy but to be worthy of happiness.
It's not attractive when girls get superskinny. Guys don't like it. Girls don't like you as much. You lose some happiness when that's all you think about.
My mum brought me up to think that personal happiness is more important than your family.
I think my capacity to change has given me tremendous happiness, because who I am today I am completely content to be.
I have to keep reminding myself: If you give your life to God, he doesn't promise you happiness and that everything will go well. But he does promise you peace. You can have peace and joy, even in bad circumstances.
The happiness of every country depends upon the character of its people, rather than the form of its government.
The older I get, the more I see that there really aren't huge zeniths of happiness or a huge abyss of darkness as much as there used to be. I tend to walk a middle ground.
I find that the older I get, the more I see that there really aren't huge zeniths of happiness or a huge abyss of darkness as much as there used to be.
Some days are just bad days, that's all. You have to experience sadness to know happiness, and I remind myself that not every day is going to be a good day, that's just the way it is!
Money is not necessarily, although it helps a lot for happiness, it's not necessarily the best way to be happy, to be rich, you know.
For me, however, that beloved, glowing little word happiness has become associated with everything I have felt since childhood upon hearing the sound of the word itself.
Nevertheless, whether in occurrences lasting days, hours or mere minutes at a time, I have experienced happiness often, and have had brief encounters with it in my later years, even in old age.
Fame is indeed beautiful and benign and gentle and satisfying, but happiness is something at once tender and brilliant beyond all things.
I want fame more than I can tell. But more than I want fame I want happiness.
If happiness truly consisted in physical ease and freedom from care, then the happiest individual would not be either a man or a woman it would be, I think, an American cow.
Happiness is no laughing matter.
I come before you to declare that my sex are entitled to the inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
The house a woman creates is a Utopia. She can't help it - can't help trying to interest her nearest and dearest not in happiness itself but in the search for it.
Now an infinite happiness cannot be purchased by any price less than that which is infinite in value and infinity of merit can only result from a nature that is infinitely divine or perfect.
The free market economy is supposed to be the only path leading to the happiness of humanity by promoting wealth and prosperity, power and influence of nations.
So, after awhile, you can only get so much happiness from a guy who's drunk come up and tell you you're great.
The inspired Scriptures make the clear distinction between false and true riches and make plain the reason why happiness is gained and fully enjoyed only by those who find true riches.
Friends have suggested that I am the least qualified person to talk about happiness, because I am often down, and sometimes profoundly depressed. But I think that's where my qualification comes from. Because to know happiness, it helps to know unhappiness.
By asking the question 'Am I happy?,' and via the answer setting out what I mean by happiness, there is a political route that can be taken, by asking another question - 'Can politics deliver happiness, and should it try?'
So here is one of my theories on happiness: we cannot know if we have lived a truly happy life until the very end. This view of life and death was reinforced by my close witnessing of the buildup to the death of Philip Gould. Philip was without doubt my closest friend in politics. When he died, I felt like I had lost a limb.
Yes, women, and men, have to be open to love, because if we're not open then there's no way for us to find happiness. But you can be open to it and still have no control over when it's going to happen.
So I started chanting when I was nineteen, which was about twelve years ago, and it really had a huge impact on my outlook, happiness, and general creativity.
This is true enough, but success is the next best thing to happiness, and if you can't be happy as a success, it's very unlikely that you would find a deeper, truer happiness in failure.
Every man hath a general desire of his own happiness and likewise a variety of particular affections, passions, and appetites to particular external objects.
Happiness or satisfaction consists only in the enjoyment of those objects which are by nature suited to our several particular appetites, passions, and affections.
The principle we call self-love never seeks anything external for the sake of the thing, but only as a means of happiness or good: particular affections rest in the external things themselves.
The sum of the whole is plainly this: The nature of man considered in his single capacity, and with respect only to the present world, is adapted and leads him to attain the greatest happiness he can for himself in the present world.
My parents were not very happy. They were very worried about me pursuing a career that even if I had talent might not give me the happiness and the success that they - any parent hopes for their child.
Some of us learned in a school of philosophy which taught that all was for the common good and nothing for oneself and have never, in any case, regarded the pursuit of happiness as anything other than an aberration of the human spirit.
I think essentially the meaning of life is probably the journey and not really any one thing or an outcome or a result. I think it's kinda the process and I think that if you can find happiness in the process then maybe that's it.
Happiness does not come from football awards. It's terrible to correlate happiness with football. Happiness comes from a good job, being able to feed your wife and kids. I don't dream football, I dream the American dream - two cars in a garage, be a happy father.
I've had a good life. Enough happiness, enough success.
The independence of all political and other bother is a happiness.
To have the sense of creative activity is the great happiness and the great proof of being alive.
Only one thing has to change for us to know happiness in our lives: where we focus our attention.
Happiness is making your dreams come true.
Individuality is the aim of political liberty. By leaving the citizen as much freedom of action and of being as comports with order and the rights of others, the institutions render him truly a freeman. He is left to pursue his means of happiness in his own manner.
I just hope I can spread some of the happiness that's been coming my way.
Money brings some happiness. But after a certain point, it just brings more money.
I think government has a major role to play in helping us with the pursuit of happiness.
Sadness is a very interesting idea, this idea of sadness being some kind of default setting that artists will go into. And then I started thinking about this idea of sadness and happiness, and the idea that sadness is very loud, and happiness is quiet.
Happiness is like a cat, If you try to coax it or call it, it will avoid you it will never come. But if you pay not attention to it and go about your business, you'll find it rubbing against your legs and jumping into your lap.
Happiness is not that easy to achieve, but having a handsome husband, a beautiful baby, and a great job helps.
To me, the most important thing is happiness.
The music is the message, the message is the music. So that's my little ministry that the Big Man upstairs gave to me - a little ministry called love and happiness.
The life and liberty and property and happiness of the common man throughout the world are at the absolute mercy of a few persons whom he has never seen, involved in complicated quarrels that he has never heard of.
It's obvious, but perhaps worth saying, that happiness has virtually nothing to do with the state of your intellect.
One of my producers said this business is like a hamster on that little wheel thing that goes around and around. You may have a great day and get great ratings, but then you've got another show to do - whatever moment of success or happiness you have you've got to keep grinding it out for the next day.
The arts are weapons of understanding and weapons of happiness.
I envy the happiness of others... I envy the sense of belonging... I seem always to be remaking myself.
I believe there is a relationship between having an interest in the arts and the behaviour of society as a whole. Some politicians find it difficult that the arts is a weapon of happiness... Politics is often about deprivation rather than the opening up of ideas and nourishing creative endeavour.
To seduce a woman famous for strict morals, religious fervor and the happiness of her marriage: what could possibly be more prestigious?
Many a happiness in life, as many a disaster, can be due to chance, but the peace within us can never be governed by chance.
Happiness is rarely absent it is we that know not of its presence.
The object of government in peace and in war is not the glory of rulers or of races, but the happiness of common man.
Mystery is gone to the certainty of technological principles. So the real terror, the real aggression against life comes in the form of the pursuit of our technological happiness.
The arrival of any child brings you a lot of happiness.
We have a long heritage of freedom that defines America. We believe there is a Creator who blessed us with life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
In securing the future of the planet, we secure happiness for ourselves. One of the aims of the Greens is to turn around the tide of pessimism amongst the young people of the world.
But if you believe in Christ and that your main goal with your life is supposed to be to honor Him and do His will, then you don't have as much pressure as someone who bases all their happiness on whether they're a movie star.
I think people should know more of Africa in terms of its joie de vivre, its feeling for life. In spite of the images that one knows about Africa - the economic poverty, the corruption - there's a joy to living and a happiness in community, living together, in community life, which may be missing here in America.
The only true happiness comes from squandering ourselves for a purpose.
Happiness is the absence of suffering. I think it's an interesting way of looking at it. I think the absence of suffering exists very rarely in the world we live in.
I am deeply grateful for the concern of all those who constantly prayed for my happiness.
Eventually, we reach the point where we start to realize that we are not going to find peace, contentment, happiness, strength, fearlessness - all of the things that in our heart of hearts we wish we had - outside of us.
Happiness for me is getting to write about the most important things I know.
My biography of Frank Sinatra is not paean to his music but rather an illumination of the man behind the music, who once described himself as 'an 18-karat manic-depressive who lived a life of violent emotional contradictions with an over-acute capacity for sadness as well as happiness.'
Bring love and peace and happiness and beautiful lives into the world in my honor. Thank you. Love you.
There's a higher form of happiness in commitment. I'm counting on it.
First and foremost, you've got to make yourself happy. Essentially being who you are is the most important thing. When you're after truth, happiness always comes.
You know, American citizens, I don't think, ever thought that the right to the pursuit of happiness did not include the right to marry the person you love. But for a whole number of Americans, gay Americans, that happens to be true.
According to your sympathy, you will take pleasure in your own happiness or in the happiness of other people but it is always your own happiness you seek.
Fashion is all about happiness. It's fun. It's important. But it's not medicine.
I've had at least my share of tragedy, but I have had far more than my share of happiness.
For my part, I do not feel that the scheme of future happiness, which ought by rights to be in preparation for me, will be at all interfered with by my not meeting again the man I have in my. mind.
Happiness has a bad rap. People say it shouldn't be your goal in life. Oh, yes it should.
More company increases happiness, but does not lighten or diminish misery.
Happiness was not made to be boasted, but enjoyed. Therefore tho others count me miserable, I will not believe them if I know and feel myself to be happy nor fear them.
To think the world therefore a general Bedlam, or place of madmen, and oneself a physician, is the most necessary point of present wisdom: an important imagination, and the way to happiness.
But it is my happiness to be half Welsh, and that the better half.
We need fundamental change. In the past, national development led to people's happiness but now the link between national growth and improvement in people's lives has been severed.
Time the great destroyer of other men's happiness, only enlarges the patrimony of literature to its possessor.
There is no dramatic difference in happiness on the part of people who are wealthy.
Well, my thoughts about California are kind of mythological. To me, as well as being a real place, it's a place where people go to find something - to find happiness or to realize their dreams. So it has that kind of quality of heroism and heartache, and Australia has that, as well.
I used to wonder if it was God's plan that I should be alone for so much of my life. But I found peace. I found happiness within people and the world.
The lesson I have thoroughly learnt, and wish to pass on to others, is to know the enduring happiness that the love of a garden gives.
Politics are beautiful. They enable a community to live collectively with one another. It's not about stabbing each other in the back it's about enabling people to reach their dreams and pursue happiness.
I have a theory that the secret of marital happiness is simple: drink in different pubs to your other half.
There may be Peace without Joy, and Joy without Peace, but the two combined make Happiness.
Well may the boldest fear and the wisest tremble when incurring responsibilities on which may depend our country's peace and prosperity, and in some degree the hopes and happiness of the whole human family.
An order of government, established by such an all-wise, powerful being, must be good and perfect, and must be calculated to promote the permanent peace, happiness, and well-being of all his subjects.
Michael has a connection with children, just like Mickey Mouse does, and he brings happiness to them, and joy.
May there always be peace, love and happiness in every house.
One's happiness depends less on what he knows than on what he feels.
If kind parents love their children and delight in their happiness, then he who is perfect goodness in sending abroad mortal contagions doth assuredly direct their use.
Every age has its happiness and troubles.
Happiness is not a possession to be prized, it is a quality of thought, a state of mind.
Traveling is the ruin of all happiness! There's no looking at a building after seeing Italy.
As long as you are being true to yourself, you will always find happiness.
I'm an inherently happy person. It comes from the inside, which means you can achieve happiness under any circumstance.
The secret of happiness is to find a congenial monotony.
Happiness consists not in having much, but in being content with little.
I was as happy doing theater in New York for little or no money as I am now doing television for more money. The happiness, I guess, comes out of it being a good job. The success has to do with the fact that it's a good job that will continue.
Our nation was founded on the principals of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
The United States are a political state, or organized society, whose end is government, for the security, welfare, and happiness of all who live under its protection.
As a bookish child in Calcutta, I used to thrill to the adventures of bad girls whose pursuit of happiness swept them outside the bounds of social decency. Tess of the d'Urbervilles, Emma Bovary and Anna Karenina lived large in my imagination. The naughty girls of Hollywood films flirted and knew how to drive.
Success can create more madness than happiness.
I ask the rights to pursue happiness by having a voice in that government to which I am accountable.
The secret of happiness is: Find something more important than you are and dedicate your life to it.
Happiness is being on the beam with life - to feel the pull of life.
There is no such thing as the pursuit of happiness, but there is the discovery of joy.
My family didn't have a lot of money, and I'm grateful for that. Money is the longest route to happiness.
I always had a larger view. I'm interested in real life - my family, my friends. I have tried never to define myself by my success, whatever that is. My happiness is way beyond roles and awards.
Before the boat docked, however, he confessed because he was contemplating running for president, he couldn't separate from his wife. I believed him when he told me he faced a difficult choice between pursuing personal happiness and his political destiny.
So many people have said that to me, that what they really like about Alex is what she brings out in Marissa, and what this situation brings out in her, a hint of happiness and another side to her character.
Leibniz dedicated his life to efforts to educate people to understand that true happiness is found by locating their identity in benefitting mankind and their posterity.
Being rich and famous isn't all happiness and at times the pressures have got to me.
I always looked for a man to rescue me and bring me happiness. I bought into that myth, of course, and looked for my own Prince Charming.
For all its terrible faults, in one sense America is still the last, best hope of mankind, because it spells out so vividly the kind of happiness that most people actually want, regardless of what they are told they ought to want.
Virtue is simply happiness, and happiness is a by-product of function. You are happy when you are functioning.
Fancy the happiness of Pinocchio on finding himself free! Without saying yes or no, he fled from the city and set out on the road that was to take him back to the house of the lovely Fairy.
The folly of endless consumerism sends us on a wild goose-chase for happiness through materialism.
There is no happiness outside of ourselves.
I have kids and I want to have a long life and there are certain things that are conducive to that and certain things that aren't. I've opted for the road of happiness and long life.
I keep mementos from everything I've done. I've got my cab driver's license from 'Happiness.' I've got a pair of glasses and a belt buckle from playing John Lennon. I've got a pair of sunglasses from playing Andy Warhol... It's all in a box in the garage.
Vegas means comedy, tragedy, happiness and sadness all at the same time.
He who never sacrificed a present to a future good or a personal to a general one can speak of happiness only as the blind do of colors.
It is our happiness to live under the government of a PRINCE who is satisfied with ruling according to law as every other good prince will - We enjoy under his administration all the liberty that is proper and expedient for us.
Character is power it makes friends, draws patronage and support and opens the way to wealth, honor and happiness.
We all of us deserve happiness or none of us does.
You always hear the phrase, money doesn't buy you happiness. But I always in the back of my mind figured a lot of money will buy you a little bit of happiness. But it's not really true. I got a new car because the old one's lease expired.
The sexes were made for each other, and only in the wise and loving union of the two is the fullness of health and duty and happiness to be expected.
For Mythology is the handmaid of literature and literature is one of the best allies of virtue and promoters of happiness.
I've never seen an obese person who has said, 'I am well in my mind.' Happiness stops food being a compensation.
Happiness, to some, elation Is, to others, mere stagnation.
I'm interested in the dark side of man. I'm interested in taboos, and murder is the greatest taboo. Characters are fascinating in their extremity, not in their happiness.
I'd learned how much happiness money can bring you. Very little.
Happiness is the real sense of fulfillment that comes from hard work.
I have a talent for happiness. I look with the eyes of a painter, and I see beauty.
The one happiness is to shut one's door upon a little room, with a table before one, and to create to create life in that isolation from life.
The groundwork of all happiness is health.
It's good to follow the path of personal happiness to some extent. People tend to get upset however when you drive a steamroller down it.
Happiness consists in activity. It is running steam, not a stagnant pool.
The pursuit of happiness is in our Constitution. We're all entitled to have the best we can.
See to do good, and you will find that happiness will run after you.
To me, flowers are happiness.
We all have to work for happiness. And you cannot listen to other people. That is the worst mistake you can make.
Happiness consumes itself like a flame. It cannot burn for ever, it must go out, and the presentiment of its end destroys it at its very peak.
Money can't buy happiness.
Marriage is wild. I thought it was this perfect land of happiness and joy. Wrong! After you say you do, you don't for a long time.
If you can measure success in this business based on happiness alone I feel like I've hit the lottery.
Experienced happiness refers to your feelings, to how happy you are as you live your life. In contrast, the satisfaction of the remembering self refers to your feelings when you think about your life.
I believe economic growth should translate into the happiness and progress of all. Along with it, there should be development of art and culture, literature and education, science and technology. We have to see how to harness the many resources of India for achieving common good and for inclusive growth.
So I decided to move that scene in the doctor's office to two-thirds into the movie, after the viewers had come to know Ryan and Ali and share in their happiness.
What happiness is there which is not purchased with more or less of pain?
If you asked somebody, 'what do you wish for in life?' they wouldn't say 'happiness.' I would have answered 'excitement, knowledge,' God knows - I mean, many, many different things, but certainly not 'happiness'. It seemed like a foreign concept to wish for something that specific and that singular.
As long as you understand that you find happiness through family, friends and love, then money is just a nice bonus.
90%, 100% are going there to hear the singing. The story is another thing. Nobody's interested in the story. Happiness is happiness.
Even when there are times that we're not happy, happiness will creep in.
It is great happiness to be praised of them who are most praiseworthy.
Law is stable the societies we are speaking of are progressive. The greater or less happiness of a people depends on the degree of promptitude with which the gulf is narrowed.
In my life I've learned that true happiness comes from giving. Helping others along the way makes you evaluate who you are. I think that love is what we're all searching for. I haven't come across anyone who didn't become a better person through love.
The truth is that relative income is not directly related to happiness. Nonpartisan social-survey data clearly show that the big driver of happiness is earned success: a person's belief that he has created value in his life or the life of others.
I don't know why my smile has become a signature pose. I think it's a nice change. I think people want to see happiness, so a smile is what can bring that. I didn't make it my trademark on purpose.
Happiness is when you love who you are and you are able to accept yourself and others.
It is the people who can do nothing who find nothing to do, and the secret to happiness in this world is not only to be useful, but to be forever elevating one's uses.
Clothes are my drug. I love Camden market - I have so many vintage pieces from there it's unbelievable. Clothes are really important to me, they give me that feeling of happiness. I love being a bit free with it all and not giving myself rules.
Since, therefore, no man is born without faults, and he is esteemed the best whose errors are the least, let the wise man consider everything human as connected with himself for in worldly affairs there is no perfect happiness under heaven.
The thing is, when I had my first success it did coincide with the end of my first marriage, and because I went on to have a very, very unhappy two years, I don't think I equate career success with personal happiness.
We hear of the wealth of nations, of the powers of production, of the demand and supply of markets, and we forget that these words mean no more, if they mean any thing, then the happiness, and the labor, and the necessities of men.
That which makes people dissatisfied with their condition, is the chimerical idea they form of the happiness of others.
With respect to the first of these obstacles, it has often been made a matter of grave complaint against Political Economists, that they confine their attention to Wealth, and disregard all consideration of Happiness or Virtue.
I've done an informal, anecdotal survey about marriage, and I've found no evidence that it brings happiness.
I find happiness comes from numerous sources in my life. Most often, the happy moments I cherish most are quiet moments with my wife and family back home in Nova Scotia.
The applause was so loud and insistent that I had to respond with several encores. I was numb with happiness, when it was over, I knew that this alone must be my life and my world.
Although one may fail to find happiness in theatrical life, one never wishes to give it up after having once tasted its fruits.
My grandmother had six kids - one died as an infant - and she was dirt-poor, and all her kids got an education. And my mom grew up poor. And they both worked so hard and cultivated so much of their own happiness. I wanted to have that like an amulet. Not like armor, but like a magic feather. Like Dumbo's magic feather.
The path I am trying so hard to follow is in fact the one that God my Father and His Son Jesus Christ want me to pursue. It has brought me deep happiness.
This is why I belong, and why I believe. I commend to all this same search for happiness and for the truth.
Heaven takes care that no man secures happiness by crime.
To comprehend the Wisdom of this Injunction the better, and explain the Duty before us, it should be considered, that Government is the only Means by which human Happiness can be attained.
If we did not look to marriage as the principal source of happiness, fewer marriages would end in tears.
The fabric of North Carolina and what makes our state so special is our families and our common desire for a brighter future for our children. No matter what your family looks like, we all want the same thing for our families - happiness, health, prosperity, a bright future for our children and grandchildren.
We have arrived at that point of time in which we are forced to see our own humiliation, as a nation, and that a progression in this line cannot be a productive of happiness, private or public.
Every moment of your life that is not a complete nightmare is happiness.
Eternal principles that govern happiness apply equally to all.
I think I am missing a gene that most people have to enable them to feel happiness about success and these kind of things.
Happiness: a way station between too little and too much.
When I first found out that I was an Idol finalist, I cried tears of happiness. I was just so happy, and my family was there and the fact that got to see that moment and share that moment with me was just everything to me.
From the Taoist point of view, the natural result of this harmonious way of living is happiness.
The secular world looks to the church and to its chagrin, finds no love, no life, no laughter, no hope and no happiness.
By mere burial man arrives not at bliss and in the future life, throughout its whole infinite range, they will seek for happiness as vainly as they sought it here, who seek it in aught else than that which so closely surrounds them here - the Infinite.
Sitting behind the bench at games is the hardest thing I've ever had to go through because basketball is really most of my happiness. So when I can't go out there and exert energy and have fun and things like that, it kind of puts everything else into perspective.
In civilized life, where the happiness and indeed almost the existence of man, depends on the opinion of his fellow men. He is constantly acting a studied part.
I knew everything and received everything. But real happiness, is giving.
I always remembered that when I saw people get married they got on a rocketship and went to Planet Happiness, Population: Them.
Some of you read with me 40 years ago a portion of Aristotle's Ethics, a selection of passages that describe his idea of happiness. You may not remember too well.
The last part, the part you're now approaching, was for Aristotle the most important for happiness.
Happiness is not a matter of events it depends upon the tides of the mind.
The only real happiness a ballplayer has is when he is playing a ball game and accomplishes something he didn't think he could do.
We pray that every field of science may contribute in bringing happiness - not disaster - to human beings.
Happiness is only real when shared.
And, in fact, you can find that the lack of basic resources, material resources, contributes to unhappiness, but the increase in material resources do not increase happiness.
I love being on stage. I'm completely, totally relaxed. It's the only time in my life when I know where I am and what's coming next. The other Robert Powell is probably fairly melancholic. Let's just say happiness isn't my default position. There are dark parts. I'm very good at it. I frighten people sometimes.
Hope is itself a species of happiness, and, perhaps, the chief happiness, which this world affords.
I'd rather have happiness than money. People ask for it. Sometimes when I don't have it. I make other people's problems my problem because they want me to they ask me to.
So many people equate money and success with happiness, especially in the music industry.
Let us never know what old age is. Let us know the happiness time brings, not count the years.
Five or six hundred heads cut off would have assured your repose, freedom and happiness.
I say there is not more happiness for me than the freedom of my Homeland.
Your destiny is my destiny. Your happiness is my happiness.
I learned that people everywhere are basically the same and have similar goals that we do. They want health and happiness and the opportunity to provide for their families.
There is nothing can pay one for that invaluable ignorance which is the companion of youth, those sanguine groundless hopes, and that lively vanity which makes all the happiness of life.
A face is too slight a foundation for happiness.
We are selling dreams. We are merchants of happiness.
The gods conceal from men the happiness of death, that they may endure life.
Lots of people I know have bootlegged tapes of performances and if they play it I will be transported back sometimes with happiness, sometimes with horror.
Too much good fortune can make you smug and unaware. Happiness should be like an oasis, the greener for the desert that surrounds it.
Happiness is realizing that nothing is too important.
No true and permanent fame can be founded except in labors which promote the happiness of mankind.
No period of my life has been one of such unmixed happiness as the four years which have been spent within college walls.
Religion is of general and public concern, and on its support depend, in great measure, the peace and good order of government, the safety and happiness of the people.
It is not only my laboratory and my place of work but also my home, so that on the 30th October I was able to share my happiness immediately with my students and collaborators and, at the same time, with my wife and family.
When the honour is given to that scientist personally the happiness is sweet indeed. Science is, on the whole, an informal activity, a life of shirt sleeves and coffee served in beakers.
The crown of life is neither happiness nor annihilation it is understanding.
Happiness is the sublime moment when you get out of your corsets at night.
Although Freud said happiness is composed of love and work, reality often forces us to choose love or work.
Money cannot buy happiness.
The Bourbon King was first ambassador of reason and human happiness.
Happiness comes from... some curious adjustment to life.
Life is full of happiness and tears be strong and have faith.
I can only point out a curious fact. Year after year the Nobel Awards bring a moment of happiness not only to the recipients, not only to colleagues and friends of the recipients, but even to strangers.
The principles we live by, in business and in social life, are the most important part of happiness.
A good education is another name for happiness.
It was a joy to be a part of the team that created Round The Horne. I was involved with the show at a time of my life when I was very happy., and that happiness overflowed into the scripts.
That action is best which procures the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers.
It is in his knowledge that man has found his greatness and his happiness, the high superiority which he holds over the other animals who inhabit the earth with him, and consequently no ignorance is probably without loss to him, no error without evil.
Purring would seem to be, in her case, an automatic safety valve device for dealing with happiness overflow.
The unproductive tillage of human cattle takes that which of right belongs to free labor, and which is necessary for the support and happiness of our own race.
There is only one real happiness in life, and that is the happiness of creating.
What is the worth of anything, But for the happiness 'twill bring?
In Hollywood, if you don't have happiness, you send out for it.
On a soap, happiness never lasts for very long!
To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear.
The wish for healing has always been half of health.
A healthy attitude is contagious but don't wait to catch it from others. Be a carrier.
Everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in, where nature may heal and give strength to body and soul.
"Tis healthy to be sick sometimes.;Henry David Thoreau;health
32832;The way you think, the way you behave, the way you eat, can influence your life by 30 to 50 years.;Deepak Chopra;health
32833;Give a man health and a course to steer, and he'll never stop to trouble about whether he's happy or not.;George Bernard Shaw;health
32834;Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity.;Hippocrates;health
32835;I made a commitment to completely cut out drinking and anything that might hamper me from getting my mind and body together. And the floodgates of goodness have opened upon me - spiritually and financially.;Denzel Washington;health
32836;It takes more than just a good looking body. You've got to have the heart and soul to go with it.;Epictetus;health
32837;Treasure the love you receive above all. It will survive long after your good health has vanished.;Og Mandino;health
32838;We can make a commitment to promote vegetables and fruits and whole grains on every part of every menu. We can make portion sizes smaller and emphasize quality over quantity. And we can help create a culture - imagine this - where our kids ask for healthy options instead of resisting them.;Michelle Obama;health
32839;Cheerfulness is the best promoter of health and is as friendly to the mind as to the body.;Joseph Addison;health
32840;You know, all that really matters is that the people you love are happy and healthy. Everything else is just sprinkles on the sundae.;Paul Walker;health
32841;I have the body of an eighteen year old. I keep it in the fridge.;Spike Milligan;health
32842;The trouble with always trying to preserve the health of the body is that it is so difficult to do without destroying the health of the mind.;Gilbert K. Chesterton;health
32843;Your body hears everything your mind says.;Naomi Judd;health
32844;Man needs difficulties they are necessary for health.;Carl Jung;health
32845;If you're happy, if you're feeling good, then nothing else matters.;Robin Wright Penn;health
32846;My body is like breakfast, lunch, and dinner. I don't think about it, I just have it.;Arnold Schwarzenegger;health
32847;A healthy outside starts from the inside.;Robert Urich;health
32848;Healthy people are those who live in healthy homes on a healthy diet in an environment equally fit for birth, growth work, healing, and dying... Healthy people need no bureaucratic interference to mate, give birth, share the human condition and die.;Ivan Illich;health
32849;A wise man should consider that health is the greatest of human blessings, and learn how by his own thought to derive benefit from his illnesses.;Hippocrates;health
32850;Rest when you're weary. Refresh and renew yourself, your body, your mind, your spirit. Then get back to work.;Ralph Marston;health
32851;I really believe the only way to stay healthy is to eat properly, get your rest and exercise. If you don't exercise and do the other two, I still don't think it's going to help you that much.;Mike Ditka;health
32852;True silence is the rest of the mind, and is to the spirit what sleep is to the body, nourishment and refreshment.;William Penn;health
32853;I believe that if you're healthy, you're capable of doing everything. There's no one else who can give you health but God, and by being healthy I believe that God is listening to me.;Pedro Martinez;health
32854;How do I stay so healthy and boyishly handsome? It's simple. I drink the blood of young runaways.;William Shatner;health
32855;My New Year's resolution is to stick to a good workout plan that will keep me healthy and happy.;James Lafferty;health
32856;A desire to be in charge of our own lives, a need for control, is born in each of us. It is essential to our mental health, and our success, that we take control.;Robert Foster Bennett;health
32857;When you are young and healthy, it never occurs to you that in a single second your whole life could change.;Annette Funicello;health
32858;America's health care system is in crisis precisely because we systematically neglect wellness and prevention.;Tom Harkin;health
32859;I believe that how you feel is very important to how you look - that healthy equals beautiful.;Victoria Principal;health
32860;As the blessings of health and fortune have a beginning, so they must also find an end. Everything rises but to fall, and increases but to decay.;Sallust;health
32861;My personal goals are to be happy, healthy and to be surrounded by loved ones.;Kiana Tom;health
32862;People who don't know how to keep themselves healthy ought to have the decency to get themselves buried, and not waste time about it.;Henrik Ibsen;health
32863;My health may be better preserved if I exert myself less, but in the end doesn't each person give his life for his calling?;Clara Schumann;health
32864;I'm exhausted trying to stay healthy.;Steve Yzerman;health
32865;Happiness, contentment, the health and growth of the soul, depend, as men have proved over and over again, upon some simple issue, some single turning of the soul.;George A. Smith;health
32866;I have a healthy body, free of the chemicals that once controlled it.;Lorna Luft;health
32867;The body is a sacred garment.;Martha Graham;health
32868;I feel pretty good. My body actually looks like an old banana, but it's fine.;Mike Piazza;health
32869;The minute anyone's getting anxious I say, You must eat and you must sleep. They're the two vital elements for a healthy life.;Francesca Annis;health
32870;Success doesn't mean that you are healthy, success doesn't mean that you're happy, success doesn't mean that you're rested. Success really doesn't mean that you look good, or feel good, or are good.;Victoria Principal;health
32871;Arguments are healthy. They clear the air.;John Deacon;health
32872;I became a fanatic about healthy food in 1944.;Gloria Swanson;health
32873;I eat really healthy, and if I'm tired, I take a nap.;Casper Van Dien;health
32874;Liberty is to the collective body, what health is to every individual body. Without health no pleasure can be tasted by man without liberty, no happiness can be enjoyed by society.;Henry St. John;health
32875;The average, healthy, well-adjusted adult gets up at seven-thirty in the morning feeling just plain terrible.;Jean Kerr;health
32876;I stand before you a totally healthy person.;Melissa Etheridge;health
32877;I'm still healthy as can be.;Darrell Royal;health
32878;I've made a promise to myself to be a 100% healthy person if nothing else.;Picabo Street;health
32879;I sit on my duff, smoke cigarettes and watch TV. I'm not exactly a poster girl for healthy living.;Lexa Doig;health
32880;What the public expects and what is healthy for an individual are two very different things.;Esther Williams;health
32881;You know, true love really matters, friends really matter, family really matters. Being responsible and disciplined and healthy really matters.;Courtney Thorne Smith;health
32882;I had my moments when I got very frightened that I would not recover.;Fran Drescher;health
32883;Healthy people live with their world.;Anne Wilson Schaef;health
32884;Health is the greatest gift, contentment the greatest wealth, faithfulness the best relationship.;Buddha;health
32885;To enjoy good health, to bring true happiness to one's family, to bring peace to all, one must first discipline and control one's own mind. If a man can control his mind he can find the way to Enlightenment, and all wisdom and virtue will naturally come to him.;Buddha;health
32886;Health is the greatest possession. Contentment is the greatest treasure. Confidence is the greatest friend. Non-being is the greatest joy.;Lao Tzu;health
32887;The devil has put a penalty on all things we enjoy in life. Either we suffer in health or we suffer in soul or we get fat.;Albert Einstein;health
32888;Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.;Thomas Jefferson;health
32889;Without health life is not life it is only a state of langour and suffering - an image of death.;Buddha;health
32890;Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.;Mark Twain;health
32891;Learning is the beginning of wealth. Learning is the beginning of health. Learning is the beginning of spirituality. Searching and learning is where the miracle process all begins.;Jim Rohn;health
32892;It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.;Jiddu Krishnamurti;health
32893;It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.;Mahatma Gandhi;health
32894;The only way to keep your health is to eat what you don't want, drink what you don't like, and do what you'd rather not.;Mark Twain;health
32895;When wealth is lost, nothing is lost when health is lost, something is lost when character is lost, all is lost.;Billy Graham;health
32896;Leave all the afternoon for exercise and recreation, which are as necessary as reading. I will rather say more necessary because health is worth more than learning.;Thomas Jefferson;health
32897;I heard a definition once: Happiness is health and a short memory! I wish I'd invented it, because it is very true.;Audrey Hepburn;health
32898;Those who enjoy their own emotionally bad health and who habitually fill their own minds with the rank poisons of suspicion, jealousy and hatred, as a rule take umbrage at those who refuse to do likewise, and they find a perverted relief in trying to denigrate them.;Johannes Brahms;health
32899;Faith and prayer are the vitamins of the soul man cannot live in health without them.;Mahalia Jackson;health
32900;It was the labor movement that helped secure so much of what we take for granted today. The 40-hour work week, the minimum wage, family leave, health insurance, Social Security, Medicare, retirement plans. The cornerstones of the middle-class security all bear the union label.;Barack Obama;health
32901;Use your health, even to the point of wearing it out. That is what it is for. Spend all you have before you die do not outlive yourself.;George Bernard Shaw;health
32902;The health of the eye seems to demand a horizon. We are never tired, so long as we can see far enough.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;health
32903;The first wealth is health.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;health
32904;Happiness is nothing more than good health and a bad memory.;Albert Schweitzer;health
32905;Older people shouldn't eat health food, they need all the preservatives they can get.;Robert Orben;health
32906;He who has health, has hope and he who has hope, has everything.;Thomas Carlyle;health
32907;Did you ever see the customers in health - food stores? They are pale, skinny people who look half - dead. In a steak house, you see robust, ruddy people. They're dying, of course, but they look terrific.;Bill Cosby;health
32908;Not necessity, not desire - no, the love of power is the demon of men. Let them have everything - health, food, a place to live, entertainment - they are and remain unhappy and low-spirited: for the demon waits and waits and will be satisfied.;Friedrich Nietzsche;health
32909;What is called genius is the abundance of life and health.;Henry David Thoreau;health
32910;After a century of striving, after a year of debate, after a historic vote, health care reform is no longer an unmet promise. It is the law of the land.;Barack Obama;health
32911;Never continue in a job you don't enjoy. If you're happy in what you're doing, you'll like yourself, you'll have inner peace. And if you have that, along with physical health, you will have had more success than you could possibly have imagined.;Johnny Carson;health
32912;I am confident that nobody... will accuse me of selfishness if I ask to spend time, while I am still in good health, with my family, my friends and also with myself.;Nelson Mandela;health
32913;Attention to health is life's greatest hindrance.;Plato;health
32914;The truth is, in order to get things like universal health care and a revamped education system, then someone is going to have to give up a piece of their pie so that someone else can have more.;Michelle Obama;health
32915;And so our goal on health care is, if we can get, instead of health care costs going up 6 percent a year, it's going up at the level of inflation, maybe just slightly above inflation, we've made huge progress. And by the way, that is the single most important thing we could do in terms of reducing our deficit. That's why we did it.;Barack Obama;health
32916;In the richest country in the history of the world, this Obama economy has crushed the middle class. Family income has fallen by $4,000, but health insurance premiums are higher, food prices are higher, utility bills are higher, and gasoline prices have doubled. Today more Americans wake up in poverty than ever before.;Mitt Romney;health
32917;If you are young and you drink a great deal it will spoil your health, slow your mind, make you fat - in other words, turn you into an adult.;P. J. O'Rourke;health
32918;Obama's health care plan will be written by a committee whose head, John Conyers, says he doesn't understand it. It'll be passed by Congress that has not read it, signed by a president who smokes, funded by a Treasury chief who didn't pay his taxes, overseen by a Surgeon General who is obese, and financed by a country that's nearly broke. What could possibly go wrong?;Rush Limbaugh;health
32919;But if you - if what - the reports are true, what they're saying is, is that as a consequence of us getting 30 million additional people health care, at the margins that's going to increase our costs, we knew that.;Barack Obama;health
32920;Women in particular need to keep an eye on their physical and mental health, because if we're scurrying to and from appointments and errands, we don't have a lot of time to take care of ourselves. We need to do a better job of putting ourselves higher on our own 'to do' list.;Michelle Obama;health
32921;The best activities for your health are pumping and humping.;Arnold Schwarzenegger;health
32922;I pray God may preserve your health and life many years.;Junipero Serra;health
32923;Time and health are two precious assets that we don't recognize and appreciate until they have been depleted.;Denis Waitley;health
32924;If we could give every individual the right amount of nourishment and exercise, not too little and not too much, we would have found the safest way to health.;Hippocrates;health
32925;Addiction should never be treated as a crime. It has to be treated as a health problem. We do not send alcoholics to jail in this country. Over 500,000 people are in our jails who are nonviolent drug users.;Ralph Nader;health
32926;True friendship is like sound health the value of it is seldom known until it is lost.;Charles Caleb Colton;health
32927;Perfect freedom is as necessary to the health and vigor of commerce as it is to the health and vigor of citizenship.;Patrick Henry;health
32928;Talk is by far the most accessible of pleasures. It costs nothing in money, it is all profit, it completes our education, founds and fosters our friendships, and can be enjoyed at any age and in almost any state of health.;Robert Louis Stevenson;health
32929;It is better to lose health like a spendthrift than to waste it like a miser.;Robert Louis Stevenson;health
32930;We can be thankful to a friend for a few acres, or a little money and yet for the freedom and command of the whole earth, and for the great benefits of our being, our life, health, and reason, we look upon ourselves as under no obligation.;Lucius Annaeus Seneca;health
32931;Overnight stardom can be harmful to your mental health. Yeah. It has ruined a lot of people.;Clint Eastwood;health
32932;On one of the most personal matters of our lives, our health care, President Obama would turn decision making over to government bureaucrats. He forced through Obama-care and I will repeal it.;Mitt Romney;health
32933;Opportunity expands when there is excellence and choice in education, when taxes are lowered, when every citizen has affordable, portable health insurance and when constitutional freedoms are preserved.;Mitt Romney;health
32934;It's no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.;Jiddu Krishnamurti;health
32935;If you're working out in front of a mirror and watching your muscles grow, your ego has reached a point where it is now eating itself. That's why I believe there should be a psychiatrist at every health club, so that when they see you doing this, they will take you away for a little chat.;Lewis Black;health
32936;You cannot have maternal health without reproductive health. And reproductive health includes contraception and family planning and access to legal, safe abortion.;Hillary Clinton;health
32937;All mankind... being all equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty or possessions.;John Locke;health
32938;Health nuts are going to feel stupid someday, lying in hospitals dying of nothing.;Redd Foxx;health
32939;Capital is reckless of the health or length of life of the laborer, unless under compulsion from society.;Karl Marx;health
32940;I've had extraordinary good luck with my health, other than a broken elbow.;Hillary Clinton;health
32941;A man is not rightly conditioned until he is a happy, healthy, and prosperous being and happiness, health, and prosperity are the result of a harmonious adjustment of the inner with the outer of the man with his surroundings.;James Allen;health
32942;The greatest of follies is to sacrifice health for any other kind of happiness.;Arthur Schopenhauer;health
32943;Health is not valued till sickness comes.;Thomas Fuller;health
32944;Health is the soul that animates all the enjoyments of life, which fade and are tasteless without it.;Lucius Annaeus Seneca;health
32945;One lesson that every nation can learn from China is to focus more on creating village-level enterprises, quality health services and educational facilities.;Abdul Kalam;health
32946;Good health and good sense are two of life's greatest blessings.;Publilius Syrus;health
32947;Property may be destroyed and money may lose its purchasing power but, character, health, knowledge and good judgement will always be in demand under all conditions.;Roger Babson;health
32948;The true index of a man's character is the health of his wife.;Cyril Connolly;health
32949;In a disordered mind, as in a disordered body, soundness of health is impossible.;Marcus Tullius Cicero;health
32950;The chief condition on which, life, health and vigor depend on, is action. It is by action that an organism develops its faculties, increases its energy, and attains the fulfillment of its destiny.;Colin Powell;health
32951;For whatever reason, maybe it's because of my story, but people associate Livestrong with exercise and physical fitness, health and lifestyle choices like that.;Lance Armstrong;health
32952;If you can be well without health, you may be happy without virtue.;Edmund Burke;health
32953;Man does not live by soap alone and hygiene, or even health, is not much good unless you can take a healthy view of it or, better still, feel a healthy indifference to it.;Gilbert K. Chesterton;health
32954;All the evidence that we have indicates that it is reasonable to assume in practically every human being, and certainly in almost every newborn baby, that there is an active will toward health, an impulse towards growth, or towards the actualization.;Abraham Maslow;health
32955;The health of the people is really the foundation upon which all their happiness and all their powers as a state depend.;Benjamin Disraeli;health
32956;The seven deadly sins: Want of money, bad health, bad temper, chastity, family ties, knowing that you know things, and believing in the Christian religion.;Samuel Butler;health
32957;I support health care for people. I want people well taken care of. But I also want health care that we can afford as a country. I have people and friends closing down their businesses because of Obamacare.;Donald Trump;health
32958;To be stupid, selfish, and have good health are three requirements for happiness, though if stupidity is lacking, all is lost.;Gustave Flaubert;health
32959;The worst thing that can happen to a man is to lose his money, the next worst his health, the next worst his reputation.;Samuel Butler;health
32960;Look up, laugh loud, talk big, keep the color in your cheek and the fire in your eye, adorn your person, maintain your health, your beauty and your animal spirits.;William Hazlitt;health
32961;Good humor is the health of the soul, sadness is its poison.;Lord Chesterfield;health
32962;Fame and power are the objects of all men. Even their partial fruition is gained by very few and that, too, at the expense of social pleasure, health, conscience, life.;Benjamin Disraeli;health
32963;If we get our self-esteem from superficial places, from our popularity, appearance, business success, financial situation, health, any of these, we will be disappointed, because no one can guarantee that we'll have them tomorrow.;Kathy Ireland;health
32964;Happiness is good health and a bad memory.;Ingrid Bergman;health
32965;I did not become a vegetarian for my health, I did it for the health of the chickens.;Isaac Bashevis Singer;health
32966;But the real secret to lifelong good health is actually the opposite: Let your body take care of you.;Deepak Chopra;health
32967;As long as man continues to be the ruthless destroyer of lower living beings he will never know health or peace. For as long as men massacre animals, they will kill each other.;Pythagoras;health
32968;I believe in universal health care. And I am not afraid to say so.;Stephen Hawking;health
32969;Medicine to produce health must examine disease and music, to create harmony must investigate discord.;Plutarch;health
32970;A good job is more than just a paycheck. A good job fosters independence and discipline, and contributes to the health of the community. A good job is a means to provide for the health and welfare of your family, to own a home, and save for retirement.;James H. Douglas;health
32971;Mental health needs a great deal of attention. It's the final taboo and it needs to be faced and dealt with.;Adam Ant;health
32972;It contributes greatly towards a man's moral and intellectual health, to be brought into habits of companionship with individuals unlike himself, who care little for his pursuits, and whose sphere and abilities he must go out of himself to appreciate.;Nathaniel Hawthorne;health
32973;Positive rights are the right to shelter, the right to education, the right to health care, the right to a living wage. These things are - these are, I would call them, more properly, political rights rather than positive rights. And they are extremely tricky, because now we are dealing with things that are zero sum.;P. J. O'Rourke;health
32974;Modern medicine is a negation of health. It isn't organized to serve human health, but only itself, as an institution. It makes more people sick than it heals.;Ivan Illich;health
32975;You get the health benefits of coffee up through about the first twenty-four ounces. It's the biggest source of antioxidants for Americans, and we think it helps prevent Alzheimer's and Parkinson's as well.;Mehmet Oz;health
32976;Nobody likes insurance companies, especially health insurance companies.;P. J. O'Rourke;health
32977;What some call health, if purchased by perpetual anxiety about diet, isn't much better than tedious disease.;Alexander Pope;health
32978;There is a wisdom in this beyond the rules of physic: a man's own observation what he finds good of and what he finds hurt of is the best physic to preserve health.;Francis Bacon;health
32979;After you're older, two things are possibly more important than any others: health and money.;Helen Gurley Brown;health
32980;The health of a democratic society may be measured by the quality of functions performed by private citizens.;Alexis de Tocqueville;health
32981;I have not been that wise. Health I have taken for granted. Love I have demanded, perhaps too much and too often. As for money, I have only realized its true worth when I didn't have it.;Hedy Lamarr;health
32982;You end up as you deserve. In old age you must put up with the face, the friends, the health, and the children you have earned.;Judith Viorst;health
32983;Regularity in the hours of rising and retiring, perseverance in exercise, adaptation of dress to the variations of climate, simple and nutritious aliment, and temperance in all things are necessary branches of the regimen of health.;Lord Chesterfield;health
32984;With any child entering adolescence, one hunts for signs of health, is desperate for the smallest indication that the child's problems will never be important enough for a television movie.;Nora Ephron;health
32985;Health consists with temperance alone.;Alexander Pope;health
32986;As women slowly gain power, their values and priorities are reshaping the agenda. A multitude of studies show that when women control the family funds, they generally spend more on health, nutrition, and education - and less on alcohol and cigarettes.;Dee Dee Myers;health
32987;Self-esteem is as important to our well-being as legs are to a table. It is essential for physical and mental health and for happiness.;Louise Hart;health
32988;I've never had very high regard for therapists. I owe my health, my mental survival, to my friends and loved ones.;Salman Rushdie;health
32989;Folks, the most insidious part of this whole health care scheme is that all of these vast medical expenditures will become nothing more than government budget items. We individuals will no longer exist. The relationship between a government and citizen will change forever.;Rush Limbaugh;health
32990;There's a lot of people in this world who spend so much time watching their health that they haven't the time to enjoy it.;Josh Billings;health
32991;America's health care system is neither healthy, caring, nor a system.;Walter Cronkite;health
32992;Avoid lawsuits beyond all things they pervert your conscience, impair your health, and dissipate your property.;Jean de la Bruyere;health
32993;Money is to my social existence what health is to my body.;Mason Cooley;health
32994;At the end of the day, sleep is a barometer of your emotional health. And so if you're not in the right place where you need to be, then you're going to have voices keeping you up at night because you have to work through those issues.;Mehmet Oz;health
32995;Religion is part of the human make-up. It's also part of our cultural and intellectual history. Religion was our first attempt at literature, the texts, our first attempt at cosmology, making sense of where we are in the universe, our first attempt at health care, believing in faith healing, our first attempt at philosophy.;Christopher Hitchens;health
32996;The awareness that health is dependent upon habits that we control makes us the first generation in history that to a large extent determines its own destiny.;Jimmy Carter;health
32997;Nurses serve their patients in the most important capacities. We know that they serve as our first lines of communication when something goes wrong or when we are concerned about health.;Lois Capps;health
32998;Health is the thing that makes you feel that now is the best time of the year.;Franklin P. Adams;health
32999;Poverty is multidimensional. It extends beyond money incomes to education, health care, political participation and advancement of one's own culture and social organisation.;Atal Bihari Vajpayee;health
33000;And I believe that the best buy in public health today must be a combination of regular physical exercise and a healthy diet.;Julie Bishop;health
33001;I received free health care.;J. K. Rowling;health
33002;Rising health care spending occurs because it is beneficial, not a burden on the economy.;Robert Hall;health
33003;In societies where mature workers are respected and where their wisdom is respected, everybody benefits. Workers are more engaged and productive. Their health is better. They live longer.;Deepak Chopra;health
33004;Did you know that nearly one in three children live apart from their biological dads? Those kids are two to three times more likely to grow up in poverty, to suffer in school, and to have health and behavioral problems.;Tony Dungy;health
33005;See, that's why Barack's running: to end the war in Iraq responsibly - to build an economy that lifts every family, to make sure health care is available for every American - and to make sure that every child in this nation has a world-class education all the way from preschool to college.;Michelle Obama;health
33006;When it comes to the health of our families, Barack refused to listen to all those folks who told him to leave health reform for another day, another president. He didn't care whether it was the easy thing to do politically - that's not how he was raised - he cared that it was the right thing to do.;Michelle Obama;health
33007;Cynicism is humor in ill health.;H. G. Wells;health
33008;Medicine sometimes snatches away health, sometimes gives it.;Ovid;health
33009;A moderate addiction to money may not always be hurtful but when taken in excess it is nearly always bad for the health.;Clarence Day;health
33010;Writing is hard work and bad for the health.;E. B. White;health
33011;No company is preferable to bad. We are more apt to catch the vices of others than virtues, as disease is far more contagious than health.;Charles Caleb Colton;health
33012;My age and health will never allow me to realize the dream of art I've been pursuing all my life.;Paul Cezanne;health
33013;I figure if I have my health, can pay the rent and I have my friends, I call it 'content."
It's bizarre that the produce manager is more important to my children's health than the pediatrician.
For sleep, riches and health to be truly enjoyed, they must be interrupted.
Mental health is often missing from public health debates even though it's critical to wellbeing.
Exuberant health is always, as such, sickness also.
One of the critical issues that we have to confront is illegal immigration, because this is a multi-headed Hydra that affects our economy, our health care, our health care, our education systems, our national security, and also our local criminality.
There's nothing more important than our good health - that's our principal capital asset.
Quit worrying about your health. It will go away.
We do not have a functioning market in the true sense of the word in health care. That's a layer of transparency that's sorely needed in America.
We are all representatives of the American people. We all do town hall meetings. We all talk to our constituents. And I've got to tell you, the American people are engaged. And if you think they want a government takeover of health care, I would respectfully submit you're not listening to them.
There is a consensus of willing leaders from both parties coalescing around the right way forward in health care. Reform should address government-imposed inequities and barriers to true choice and competition.
We must solve the problem in health care by curbing out-of-control costs that erode paychecks for working families and push quality coverage out of reach for millions of Americans.
So, in Europe, they're cutting people's retirement and health benefits. And that's what we want to avoid from happening. They're raising taxes, entering a recession. That's the kind of economic program that President Obama has put in place.
The president has declared that the debate over government-controlled health care is over. That will come as news to the millions of Americans who will elect Mitt Romney so we can repeal Obamacare.
According to the Privacy Rights Center, up to 10 million Americans are victims of ID theft each year. They have a right to be notified when their most sensitive health data is stolen.
Sobriety and health is the greatest thing.
Health food makes me sick.
Eating ice cream and not exercising is great. The downside is your health isn't so good.
The fact is that we would have had comprehensive health care now, had it not been for Ted Kennedy's deliberately blocking the legislation that I proposed in 1978 or '79.
I think all Americans believe in human rights. And health is an often overlooked aspect of basic human rights. And it's one that's easily corrected. The reason I say that is that many of the diseases that we treat around the world, I knew when I was a child. My mother was a registered nurse. And they no longer exist in our country.
They said it was impossible to touch the third rail of politics, to take on public-sector unions and to reform a pension and health benefits system that was headed to bankruptcy. But with bipartisan leadership, we saved taxpayers $132 billion dollars over 30 years and saved retirees their pensions. We did it.
My health is very good.
Health food may be good for the conscience but Oreos taste a hell of a lot better.
A teacher must believe in the value and interest of his subject as a doctor believes in health.
Hollywood is a cross between a health farm, a recreation center and an insane asylum. It's a company town, and I happen to like the company!
I've been to enough other countries in the world to know what happens when you have socialized single-payer health care. It works. People don't get sick as much. They don't lose their life savings with a catastrophic illness like cancer or AIDS.
Adoptive parents are taking on enormous responsibility, both emotionally and financially. Quite frankly, they need as much disclosure as possible about the child's background and health to assure the best fit and be prepared.
Lost wealth may be replaced by industry, lost knowledge by study, lost health by temperance or medicine, but lost time is gone forever.
Health is the state about which medicine has nothing to say.
In health there is freedom. Health is the first of all liberties.
Take all that is given whether wealth, love or language, nothing comes by mistake and with good digestion all can be turned to health.
What can be added to the happiness of a man who is in health, out of debt, and has a clear conscience?
Many soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from serious, long-term, physical and mental health problems, due to their service. It is unconscionable to cut the already limited health care benefits available to these brave men and women.
Good health is not something we can buy. However, it can be an extremely valuable savings account.
I think it's horrible that people have to be told. Don't smoke! Everybody knows it's bad for the health. But they have to forbid it.
There are less than 1 per cent of anorexic girls, but there more than 30 per cent of girls in France - I don't know about England - that are much, much overweight. And it is much more dangerous and very bad for the health.
A retired teacher paid $62,000 towards her pension and nothing, yes nothing, for full family medical, dental and vision coverage over her entire career. What will we pay her? $1.4 million in pension benefits and another $215,000 in health care benefit premiums over her lifetime.
Cutting meat out of your diet is the best thing you can do for animals and your own health.
The private sector must play a role in ensuring the prosperity and health of the people who comprise its market. It is time for the private sector to become a proactive partner contributing to the efforts of governments and philanthropies.
Anywhere you have extreme poverty and no national health insurance, no promise of health care regardless of social standing, that's where you see the sharp limitations of market-based health care.
My health is fine.
The type of leukemia that I am dealing with is treatable. So if I do what my doctors tell me to do - get my blood checked regularly, take my meds and consult with my doctor and follow any additional instructions he might make - I will be able to maintain my good health and live my life with a minimum of disruptions to my lifestyle.
For the last 3 years, we have celebrated National Nurses Week. Beginning on May 6, we will once again have the opportunity to truly commend the nursing community for their contributions to our national health delivery system.
Got good news and bad news for you, Mr. President. The good news is that Chief Justice John Roberts just saved your legacy and, perhaps, your presidency by writing for the Supreme Court majority to rule health care reform constitutional.
For families across the UK who are income-poor, but more than that, whose lives are blighted by worklessness, educational failure, family breakdown, problem debt and poor health, as well as other problems, giving them an extra pound - say through increased benefits - will not address the reason they find themselves in difficulty in the first place.
He whom the gods love dies young, while he is in health, has his senses and his judgments sound.
We believe in government involvement that leads to independence: good schools, quality roads and the best health care.
We know a great deal more about the causes of physical disease than we do about the causes of physical health.
I have never yet met a healthy person who worried very much about his health, or a really good person who worried much about his own soul.
Well, we lost a lot of our independence already. We are dependent on China for credit. We are dependent on Middle Eastern countries for energy supplies. And many Americans are dependent on the government for their income, health care, education of their children, food stamps.
I'm convinced that we can shape a different future for this country as it relates to mental health and as it relates to suicide.
The doctor has been taught to be interested not in health but in disease. What the public is taught is that health is the cure for disease.
I have had lots of friends who've been affected by Aids and a very good friend of mine, Oscar Moore, died of Aids and I was with him in his last year quite a bit. And of course he was a man living in a very rich culture with a wealthy family who was able to afford health care.
The ultimate purpose of religious life is to make this evolution move in a direction far more important to the destiny of the ego than the moral health of the social fabric which forms his present environment.
People use so much more health care when they live longer.
We drink one another's health and spoil our own.
There's a need for accepting responsibility - for a person's life and making choices that are not just ones for immediate short-term comfort. You need to make an investment, and the investment is in health and education.
One thing governors feel, Democrats and Republicans alike, is that we have a health care system that, if you're on Medicaid, you have unlimited access to health care, at unlimited levels, at no cost. No wonder it's running away.
My main goal is to stay healthy because when you're injured you realise how lucky you are to have your health.
I'm one of those people who is actually inspired by a deadline. I might not sleep for many days on end, it may not be good for my health, but it definitely helps.
America doesn't have health insurance.
If you want to know why Republicans and conservatives are in a political crisis, you need only consider the fact that the Right's deeply held view now boils down to this: Taxes should not go up on the wealthy, and your health benefits should be cut.
Obama seemed poised to realign American politics after his stunning 2008 victory. But the economy remains worse than even the administration's worst-case scenarios, and the long legislative battles over health care reform, financial services reform and the national debt and deficit have taken their toll. Obama no longer looks invincible.
Health consists of having the same diseases as one's neighbors.
In order to lead a country or a company, you've got to get everybody on the same page and you've got to be able to have a vision of where you're going. America can't have a vision of health care for everybody, green economy, regulations - can't have a bunch of piece-meal activities. It's got to have a vision.
If I were a capitalist I would not give my employees health insurance with no deductible, which I do, including dental, and paid pregnancy leave. That's not called capitalism, that's called being a Christian and someone who believes in democracy, so that everyone should get a fair slice of the pie.
Successful health reform must not just make health insurance affordable, affordable health insurance has to make health care affordable.
People who overly take care of their health are like misers. They hoard up a treasure which they never enjoy.
People who are always taking care of their health are like misers, who are hoarding a treasure which they have never spirit enough to enjoy.
Many kids come out of college, they have a credit card and a diploma. They don't know how to buy a house or a car or health insurance or life insurance. They do not know basic microeconomics.
Dick Cheney said he was running again. He said his health was fine, 'I've got a doctor with me 24 hours a day.' Yeah, that's always the sign of a man in good health, isn't it?
There are over 200 million illiterate women in India. This low literacy negatively impacts not just their lives but also their families' and the country's economic development. A girl's lack of education also has a negative impact on the health and well-being of her children.
People in their 70s can still have incredible lives. Health is the most important thing.
We cannot continue. Our pension costs and health care costs for our employees are going to bankrupt this city.
What I got which was unusual, especially as a child actress, was parents who believed that Hollywood was not that important. They told us education, family, health, all come first and they meant it.
The preservation of health is a duty. Few seem conscious that there is such a thing as physical morality.
You don't have to be a wreck. You don't have to be sick. One's aim in life should be to die in good health. Just like a candle that burns out.
Obama is capable - as evidenced by his first-term success with health care reform. But mandate-building requires humility, a trait not easily associated with him.
Republicans would have preferred the court overturn the health care bill, an act that would have underscored Obama's biggest liability - the perception among voters, including those who like and trust him, that he has been ineffective.
Restoring responsibility and accountability is essential to the economic and fiscal health of our nation.
My life in Brooklyn was in constant danger because of my bad health.
I am opposed to anybody making a decision for you or me or anybody else about what health care plan we should have.
My Dad is my hero. He's 85 now and he is in great health. He is handsome and strong. He has an incredible moral and ethical backbone. I couldn't have been luckier with my parents.
Health care and education, in my view, are next up for fundamental software-based transformation.
It is time to end the discrimination against people who need treatment for chemical addiction. It is time for Congress to deal with our Nation's number one public health problem.
The only principles of public conduct that are worthy of a gentleman or a man are to sacrifice estate, ease, health, and applause, and even life, to the sacred calls of his country.
The filth and noise of the crowded streets soon destroy the elasticity of health which belongs to the country boy.
The only truly individualistic health-care choice - where you receive care that is unpolluted by anyone else's funds - is to forgo insurance altogether, paying out-of-pocket for health services as you need them.
Yes, Democrats can prove that America pays more for health care than other countries yes, they have won the dispute that private health insurance is needlessly expensive. But what they've lost is the argument that we are a society.
While Democrats fussed with the details of health care reforms, conservatives spent months telling the nation that the real issue is freedom, that what's on the line is American liberty itself.
Government is, by its very nature, a destroyer of liberties the Obama administration, specifically, is promising to interfere with the economy and the health care system so profoundly that Washington will soon have us all in chains.
What is at stake in the debate over health care is more than the mere crafting of policy. The issue is now the identity of the Democratic Party.
Mr. Obama still has time to reverse course. A great deal depends on it. To fail on health care yet again might well be the 'Waterloo' Republicans dream of.
Every profession will have its rogues, of course, no matter what oaths are sworn, but many health care professionals have a real commitment to serving the best interests of their clients.
No matter how old you are, no matter how much you weigh, you can still control the health of your body.
Effective health care depends on self-care this fact is currently heralded as if it were a discovery.
The greatest public health threat for many American women is the men they live with.
As it turns out, social scientists have established only one fact about single women's mental health: employment improves it.
It's easier to lecture women on sexual morality than it is to explain why all Americans shouldn't have comprehensive, fair, and equal health care coverage.
Women know the financial, social and physical costs of not having access to basic health care.
It's long past time we started focusing on the solutions that actually keep women healthy, instead of using basic aspects of women's health as a tool of cultural, moral, and political control.
We should be concerned not only about the health of individual patients, but also the health of our entire society.
People spending more of their own money on routine health care would make the system more competitive and transparent and restore the confidence between the patients and the doctors without government rationing.
Health care is one-sixth of our economy. If the government can control that, they can control just about everything. We need to understand what is going on, because there are much more economic models that can be used to give us good health care than what we have now.
I hope someday we will be able to proclaim that we have banished hunger in the United States, and that we've been able to bring nutrition and health to the whole world.
I'm not into animal rights. I'm only into animal welfare and health. I've been with the Morris Animal Foundation since the '70s. We're a health organization. We fund campaign health studies for dogs, cats, lizards and wildlife. I've worked with the L.A. Zoo for about the same length of time. I get my animal fixes!
As musicians and artists, it's important we have an environment - and I guess when I say environment, I really mean the industry, that really nurtures these gifts. Oftentimes, the machine can overlook the need to take care of the people who produce the sounds that have a lot to do with the health and well-being of society.
I think the number one thing Black women and all Black people should be paying attention to is our health.
Any health care funding plan that is just, equitable, civilized and humane must - must - redistribute wealth from the richer among us to the poorer and the less fortunate. Excellent healthcare is by definition re-distributional.
I think first and foremost everybody should understand that Canadians are strongly committed to the system of universal health insurance, to the principle that your ability to pay does not determine your access to critical medical service.
For the sake of our health, our children and grandchildren and even our economic well-being, we must make protecting the planet our top priority.
Thanks to evolution, our bodies have powerful ways to ward off illness and infection and enable us to live long and healthy lives. Why, then, do health costs continue to climb at unsustainable and frightening rates?
Hydraulic fracturing requires massive amounts of water. Disposing of the toxic wastewater, as well as accidental spills, can contaminate drinking water and harm human health.
Doing all we can to combat climate change comes with numerous benefits, from reducing pollution and associated health care costs to strengthening and diversifying the economy by shifting to renewable energy, among other measures.
The power of community to create health is far greater than any physician, clinic or hospital.
I was one of those people who put too much emphasis on work and career and material possessions, and it took its toll on all my relationships, on my physical health, my emotional and mental health.
My health and my family are the core of my being.
Strong advocacy for education, health care and worker safety will be indispensable if they are to get their fair share of President Bush's austere budget for the next fiscal year.
The dual scourge of hunger and malnutrition will be truly vanquished not only when granaries are full, but also when people's basic health needs are met and women are given their rightful role in societies.
Yoga is wonderful. It clears up most health problems. It also gives you an overview.
Do we talk about the dignity of work? Do we give our students any reason for believing it is worthwhile to sacrifice for their work because such sacrifices improve the psychological and mental health of the person who makes them?
Love is not as important as good health. You cannot be in love if you're not healthy. You can't appreciate it.
It's funny, I do try to maintain health. I started doing Bikram yoga which is that hothouse yoga, the 105 degrees yoga for 90 minutes. It's great, you purge out all the sweat and you're drinking water.
If Charlton Heston can have a constitutional right carry a rifle, why can't grandma have a constitutional right to health care?
My health is very much improved.
Think of an economy where people could be an artist or a photographer or a writer without worrying about keeping their day job in order to have health insurance.
Health care reform, the marquee legislative accomplishment of the Obama administration's first term, was passed before we entered the world of divided government.
You cannot drive a system that's going to be aiming at preventing illness if everyone is not in it. The whole gaming of health insurance and health care in America is based on that fundamental principle: insure people who aren't sick and you don't have to pay more money on them.
Experience taught me that working families are often just one pay check away from economic disaster. And it showed me first-hand the importance of every family having access to good health care.
A woman's health is her capital.
I mean, the fight for a health care bill to cover all Americans and leave none behind is attacked as being a race appeal, which is not true, but then it's put out in the media as true.
One state retiree, 49 years old, paid, over the course of his entire career, a total of $124,000 towards his retirement pension and health benefits. What will we pay him? $3.3 million in pension payments over his life and nearly $500,000 for health care benefits - a total of $3.8m on a $120,000 investment.
In today's world, it is shortsighted to think that infectious diseases cannot cross borders. By allowing developing countries access to generic drugs, we not only help improve health in those nations, we also help ourselves control these debilitating and often deadly diseases.
With the loss of Free Choice Vouchers, hundreds of thousands of workers will now be forced to choose between their employers' unaffordable insurance or going without health care.
Since 1994, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have considered it politically risky to offer a plan to fix America's broken health care system. The American public, though, has paid the price for this silence as health care costs skyrocketed, millions went uninsured, and millions more grappled with financial insecurity and hardship.
Pay mind to your own life, your own health, and wholeness. A bleeding heart is of no help to anyone if it bleeds to death.
A comfortable house is a great source of happiness. It ranks immediately after health and a good conscience.
Wendy Malick and Valerie Bertinelli make fun of me, but I take care of my health - I don't abuse it.
The bottom line is, I'm blessed with good health. On top of that, I don't go around thinking 'Oh, I'm 90, I better do this or I better do that.' I'm just Betty. I'm the same Betty that I've always been. Take it or leave it.
I seem to be thinking rationally again in the style that is characteristic of scientists. However, this is not entirely a matter of joy as if someone returned from physical disability to good physical health.
Competition makes things come out right. Well, what does that mean in health care? More hospitals so they compete with each other. More doctors compete with each other. More pharmaceutical companies. We set up war. Wait a minute, let's talk about the patient. The patient doesn't need a war.
It is reasonable to expect the doctor to recognize that science may not have all the answers to problems of health and healing.
Frequent worshippers are also significantly more active citizens. They are more likely to belong to community organizations, especially those concerned with young people, health, arts and leisure, neighborhood and civic groups and professional associations.
Walking is magic. Can't recommend it highly enough. I read that Plato and Aristotle did much of their brilliant thinking together while ambulating. The movement, the meditation, the health of the blood pumping, and the rhythm of footsteps...this is a primal way to connect with one's deeper self.
Health is not a condition of matter, but of Mind.
The accumulation of numbers always augments in some measure moral corruptions, and the consequences to health of the various vices incident thereto, are well known.
Japan actually is an aging population, and so as the population has aged, they have had a lot more problems with health.
The rise of childhood obesity has placed the health of an entire generation at risk.
It's about businesses nervous about taking on school leavers because of a mass of red tape. It's about health and safety regulations and green fines.
I don't think healthcare's a right. The only right you have is the ability to go out on an even playing field and work, and then purchase health insurance, or whatever it is.
As long as I have my health, I want to be reporting somewhere.
Hollywood... a city I was to come back to time and again, in sickness and in health, in success and in failure, with anticipation and with dread.
I always made my food congenial to my constitution, and my health was always excellent.
I learned very early that our health is always impaired by some excess either of food or abstinence, and I never had any physician except myself.
My personal feeling, if I can interject a political note, is that I don't think it is right that basic health care is a privilege. It shouldn't be. It should be a right of all human beings. And certainly in the richest country in the world.
I try to stay positive by focusing on how much I'll appreciate my health if I get better.
Furthermore, we believe that health care reform, again I said at the beginning of my remarks, that we sent the three pillars that the President's economic stabilization and job creation initiatives were education and innovation - innovation begins in the classroom - clean energy and climate, addressing the climate issues in an innovative way to keep us number one and competitive in the world with the new technology, and the third, first among equals I may say, is health care, health insurance reform.
I think about my parents all the time, especially on Sunday when I'm at Mass. My mother always said, 'We do not pray to win elections. We pray for people's health, we pray that God's will be done, we pray that we do our best. But we do not pray to win elections.'
For me, I am left leaning when it comes to health and education, on the right when it comes to defense. So I don't know where I come on the political spectrum. And I think this the challenge that a lot of Jordanians have to deal with.
Children born to teens have less supportive and stimulating environments, poorer health, lower cognitive development, and worse educational outcomes. Children of teen mothers are at increased risk of being in foster care and becoming teen parents themselves, thereby repeating the cycle.
Looking after my health today gives me a better hope for tomorrow.
Look, I hate to sound like Pollyanna, but I literally can't wait to get to work in the morning. I've got steady jobs, I've got my health, and I'm here in the greatest city in the world. I'd be a pig not to be grateful.
As the National Football League and other pro sports increasingly reckon with the early dementia, mental health issues, suicides and even criminal behavior of former players, the risk of what's known as chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), is becoming clear.
There's no one place a virus goes to die - but that doesn't make its demise any less a public health victory. Throughout human history, viral diseases have had their way with us, and for just as long, we have hunted them down and done our best to wipe them out.
And I believe that if we can care about whether or not our neighbor has a good job or access to affordable health care for their children, and we move to implement the policies that can improve these situations, we will unleash vast amounts of human potential and recapture the American spirit.
Our children's health and well-being are dependent on our commitment to promoting food access and good eating habits at home, at school and in the community.
If you're going to vote on a television contract, there is a certain rationality to saying that the same structures that are applied to Health Plan participation should be placed on the right to vote on a strike.
I would support a devolution of power out of Washington for education, health care, transportation.
It begins and ends with money. It's absurd in this day and age when we need so much money for education, health, for people, that a $100 million dollars can be spent on a film. It's obscene.
All the evidence shows very clearly that if you are a member of a trade union you are likely to get better pay, more equal pay, better health and safety, more chance to get training, more chance to have conditions of work that help if you have caring responsibilities... the list goes on!
True health care reform cannot happen in Washington. It has to happen in our kitchens, in our homes, in our communities. All health care is personal.
We are spending most of our time in American health care fixing the mistakes that either we in the profession are causing or our patients are, without recognizing it, causing to themselves.
I saw many people who had advanced heart disease and I was so frustrated because I knew if they just knew how to do the right thing, simple lifestyle and diet steps, that the entire trajectory of their life and health would have been different.
Illegal immigration costs taxpayers $45 billion a year in health care, education, and incarceration expenses.
Lack of time is a real health killer.
Alaska is what happens when Willy Wonka and the witch from Hansel and Gretel elope, buy a place together upstate, renounce their sweet teeth, and turn into health fanatics.
When I was on Broadway, I got really sick with walking pneumonia. I decided not to take my health for granted anymore and make it a priority. The great thing is, the pounds just started to fall off.
And I think of that again as I've written in several of my beauty books, a lot of health comes from the proper eating habits, which are something that - you know, I come from a generation that wasn't - didn't have a lot of food.
I think health is another exceedingly important thing.
I believe that parents need to make nutrition education a priority in their home environment. It's crucial for good health and longevity to instill in your children sound eating habits from an early age.
Many health care providers, particularly physicians in rural and urban areas, are leaving the Government programs because of inadequate reimbursement rates.
It's time to look beyond the budget ax to assure access to health care for all. It's time to look for bipartisan solutions to the problems we can tackle today, and to work together for tomorrow - building a health care system that works for all Americans.
Fixing health care and fixing the economy are two sides of the same coin.
For the amount of money that the country is going to spend this year on health care, you can go out and hire a doctor for every seven families in the US and pay the doctor almost $230,000 a year to cover them.
I believe the most important aspect of Medicare is not the structure of the program but the guarantee to all Americans that they will have high quality health care as they get older.
When the Veterans Affairs Department implemented a program to provide home-based health care to veterans with multiple chronic conditions - many of the system's most expensive patients to treat - they received astounding results.
Without Free Choice Vouchers, there is little in the health reform law that discourages employers from increasingly passing the burden of health care costs onto their employees.
The reality is that the special interest groups that have lobbied against Free Choice Vouchers object to any measure that would empower employees to have a say in their health benefits because it begins to erode their power in the current health care system.
It is hard to miss the irony in the fact that the very same week that Republicans were publicly heralding Congressman Paul Ryan's plan to inject market forces into the American health care system, they were crafting a budget deal to strip them from the health reform law.
While Free Choice Vouchers didn't fulfill my vision of a health care system in which every American would be empowered to hire and fire their insurance company, they were a foothold for choice and competition and a safety valve for Americans whose employers are already forcing them to bear more and more of their family's health insurance costs.
It's correct that I wanted health reform to do more to create choices and promote competition.
Americans are free to choose everything from what they eat, drive and watch on TV to the President of the United States. Yet, when it comes to allowing Americans to choose the health insurance that works best for them and their family, the freedom to choose suddenly becomes un-American.
I agree with just about everyone in the reform debate when they say 'If you like what you have, you should be able to keep it.' But the truth is that none of the health reform bills making their way through Congress actually delivers on that promise.
If you like the health insurance that you have you should be able to keep it, but if you don't like the health insurance you have, you should be able to choose something else.
I believe that whether you love your job or hate your job, get laid off or are just in-between jobs, you deserve health care that can never be taken away.
Under the Healthy Americans Act, you're in charge of your health care - not your employer. If you lose your job, change jobs or just can't find a job, your health insurance is guaranteed to stick with you.
With a host of proposals on the table and a President examining new ideas for health reform, we have an obligation to give real reform our best shot.
To help the poor to a capacity for action and liberty is something essential for one's own health as well as theirs: there is a needful gift they have to offer which cannot be offered so long as they are confined by poverty.
Because of the president's leadership, every American will have access to affordable, quality health care.
Teaching kids about health and fitness is important to me. It's about being fit for life.
A life coach does for the rest of your life what a personal trainer does for your health and fitness.
Today the demands are for even higher standards in the quality of care, for greater flexibility and convenience in treatment times, and for more prevention through screening and health checks.
I don't think there's a shortage of material in the world. Or in my head. I just pray for continued good health, because I've got other stories to tell.
Your 40s are a major trough. About the age of 50, feelings of satisfaction begin to rebound and keep rising into your 50s, 60s and 70s, with health being a major factor.
In the beginning when I sat next to Tom Brokaw on the 'Today' show, the stories I was interested in were those having to do with women and children and learning and health. In those days, 25 to 30 years ago, that was called soft news, and not in a nice way.
I used to drink tons of caffeine. Now I make smoothies with frozen berries and Green Vibrance health powder.
I am interested in getting people to use the healthcare system at the right time, getting them to see the doctor early enough, before a small health problem turns serious.
Hey 'Bachelor,' take notes! Trusting one another and sharing a journey to health leads to lasting relationships!
One of the things I like best about 'Biggest Loser' is being around people who are trying to make the right choices. When you feel defeated about your weight and your health, like there's no hope, and you still make the choice to fight for it, to make the change happen no matter what people say or think, that's inspiring to me.
Nothing is more capable of troubling our reason, and consuming our health, than secret notions of jealousy in solitude.
I'm happy that I feel a little less out of place in filmmaking than I once was - but it's almost impossible for a playwright in the U.S. to make a living. You can have a play, like I did with 'Angels,' and it still generates income for me, but it's not enough for me to live on and have health insurance.
Each State has its own health insurance mandates, and some of them are good, but there are about 1,800 of them all across the Nation, including provisions for acupuncturists, massage therapists, and hair replacements.
We need better neighbors, neighbors that care about the schools in their neighborhood whether they have kids in them or not, because they know that the health and vitality of that neighborhood depends on it.
Make no mistake, a 'yes' vote on the Democrats' health care bill is a vote for taxpayer-funded abortions.
The public health of five million children should not be left to luck or chance.
Productive achievement is a consequence and an expression of health and self-esteem, not its cause.
The health effects of air pollution imperil human lives. This fact is well-documented.
Today we have a health insurance industry where the first and foremost goal is to maximize profits for shareholders and CEOs, not to cover patients who have fallen ill or to compensate doctors and hospitals for their services. It is an industry that is increasingly concentrated and where Americans are paying more to receive less.
America has the best doctors, the best nurses, the best hospitals, the best medical technology, the best medical breakthrough medicines in the world. There is absolutely no reason we should not have in this country the best health care in the world.
Well, the truth is that a lot of people lie about their health, they lie about the finances, they lie about things at work, they lie about things.
I don't know of a Democrat - whether they're a conservative, a centrist or a liberal Democrat - that doesn't think that it's important to have quality jobs that pay decent wages so that families can support themselves, so that they can have the dignity of being able to afford health care, put money aside for pension, buy a home.
I don't know if there is a Democrat who necessarily doesn't believe health care is a right instead of privilege. There is a significant between us and the Republican Party on that issue.
We know that there are significant health benefits from consuming more fruits and vegetables, and that's an opportunity for us to sort of move away from some of the meals that we've been preparing in the past.
I have no regrets. I've got my health.
Spiritually good people, pure in heart, who long for the Blessed Sacrament but cannot receive at the time, can receive spiritually... even a hundred times a day, in sickness and in health, with immeasurable grace and profit.
I'm 58 years old and I just went through 8 back surgeries. They started cutting on me in February 2009, and I was basically bed ridden for almost two years. I got a real dose of reality that if you don't have your health, you don't have anything.
I have a lot of health anxiety.
Advances in technology will continue to reach far into every sector of our economy. Future job and economic growth in industry, defense, transportation, agriculture, health care, and life sciences is directly related to scientific advancement.
Many smart folks seem to think that if you just get your metaphors and messages right, you'll win. That if you start describing what you favor as a 'moral value' - 'affordable health care is a moral value' etc., - then you'll appeal to red-state voters.
There are all kinds of things you can do to marry literacy with health.
I think that age as a number is not nearly as important as health. You can be in poor health and be pretty miserable at 40 or 50. If you're in good health, you can enjoy things into your 80s.
I'd like to see the health care professionals making decisions, not some bureaucrat in Indianapolis working for an insurance company.
Voters did say 'repeal health care,' they did say 'reduce the size of government.' But not a single one of them from the tea party or anywhere said 'give tax breaks to the wealthiest.'
I became a vegetarian out of compassion for animals and to live as healthy as possible. I realized soon after that I was truly concerned with nonviolent consumption and my own health, a vegan diet was the best decision.
I'm by no means condemning prescription medicine for mental health. I've seen it save a lot of people's lives.
We are all born with a unique genetic blueprint, which lays out the basic characteristics of our personality as well as our physical health and appearance... And yet, we all know that life experiences do change us.
Women are half the population and they know how to take care of themselves, if they are only given access to health care.
The idea of making access to safe abortions harder and more expensive and more difficult, having to travel across state lines - that puts women's health and lives in jeopardy, which is something I think no one wants.
Women's health needs to be front and center - it often isn't, but it needs to be.
The more easily digestible and refined the carbohydrates, the greater the effect on our health, weight and well-being.
Most American diets, even bad ones, provide more than enough calcium for bone health, especially for men.
I fully support a national health care program for the U.S.
One of the most obvious ways dogs can improve our physical and mental health is via daily walks.
The bottom line is that the human body is complex and subtle, and oversimplifying - as common sense sometimes impels us to do - can be hazardous to your health.
Human beings have survived for millennia because most of us make good decisions about our health most of the time.
If we can make the correct diagnosis, the healing can begin. If we can't, both our personal health and our economy are doomed.
The World Health Organization has recognized acupuncture as effective in treating mild to moderate depression.
I have argued for years that we do not have a health care system in America. We have a disease-management system - one that depends on ruinously expensive drugs and surgeries that treat health conditions after they manifest rather than giving our citizens simple diet, lifestyle and therapeutic tools to keep them healthy.
I am not against all forms of high-tech medicine. Drugs and surgeries have a secure place in the treatment of serious health conditions. But modern American medicine treats almost every health condition as if it were an emergency.
The most common objection that I hear to walking as exercise is that it's too easy, that only sweaty, strenuous activity offers real benefits. But there is abundant evidence that regular, brisk walking is associated with better health, including lower blood pressure, better moods and improved cholesterol ratios.
It does kids no favors, and sets them up for a potential lifetime of poor health and social embarrassment, to excuse them from family meals of real food. Everyone benefits from healthy eating, but it is particularly crucial at the beginning of life.
Citizens must pressure the American Hospital Association, the American Public Health Association, the Centers for Disease Control and other relevant governmental agencies to make greening our hospitals and medical centers a top priority so that they themselves don't create even more illness.
We need to accept the seemingly obvious fact that a toxic environment can make people sick and that no amount of medical intervention can protect us. The health care community must become a powerful political lobby for environmental policy and legislation.
As an American, you have a right to good health care that is effective, accessible, and affordable, that serves you from infancy through old age, that allows you to go to practitioners and facilities of your choosing, and that offers a broad range of therapeutic options.
You can't afford to get sick, and you can't depend on the present health care system to keep you well. It's up to you to protect and maintain your body's innate capacity for health and healing by making the right choices in how you live.
Whenever I write about mental health and integrative therapies, I am accused of being prejudiced against pharmaceuticals. So let me be clear - integrative medicine is the judicious application of both conventional and evidence-based natural therapies.
The health care system is really designed to reward you for being unhealthy. If you are a healthy person and work hard to be healthy, there are no benefits.
Oh my gosh, I feel like I'm really obsessive about anything dealing with my health.
I've always enjoyed poor health.
Most of the provisions designed to fix what ails our health system don't kick in until 2014, which, one wishes administration officials had noticed, is two years after he has to win an election.
Yes. I think the anti-Wal-Mart is Costco, which pays much better and has much better health benefits and which is profitable and offers low prices.
When a woman earns a dollar, the payback is higher. She'll invest in her children, in their education, health care, and basic needs. The impact of a woman's role in the economy benefits society at large.
You should be able to afford health care for your family. You should be able to retire with dignity and respect. And you should be able to give your children the kind of education that allows them to dream even bigger, go even farther and accomplish even more than you could ever imagine.
TV does not care about you or what happens to you. It's downright bad for your health now, and that's not a far-out concept. I think watching the TV news is bad for you. It is bad for your physical health and your mental health.
I am trying to inspire people to just take control of their oral health, because if we don't take care of our oral health, it affects so many different aspects of our lives. If your smile and mouth is not together, it affects your relationship, your self-esteem, your health.
Mark Ruffalo, aka the Incredible Hulk, is the natural gas industry's worst nightmare: a serious, committed activist who is determined to use his star power as a superhero in the hottest movie of the moment to draw attention the environmental and public health risks of fracking.
The biggest tab the public picks up for fossil fuels has to do with what economists call 'external costs,' like the health effects of air and water pollution.
In this country, the health concerns and the environmental concerns are as deep as in Europe. All the surveys show that. But here, we didn't have the cultural dimension. This is a fast-food culture.
From this experience we have learned that in a big party it is important to have the necessary and often controversial discussions on policy issues such as the health system while in opposition.
As I mentioned previously, the tools that allow for optimum health are diet and exercise.
Prevention is one of the few known ways to reduce demand for health and aged care services.
We designed both our state employee health plans and the one we created for low-income Hoosiers as Health Savings Accounts, and now in the tens of thousands these citizens are proving that they are fully capable of making smart, consumerist choices about their own health care.
Left to ourselves, we might pick the wrong health insurance, the wrong mortgage, the wrong school for our kids why, unless they stop us, we might pick the wrong light bulb.
Why do we have 47 million people without health care? Because America has become about 'me'. What's happened to 'we' as a people? I believe in that and that resonates to most people.
We cannot rest until we make sure that our families can afford to live and raise their kids here, that our seniors can remain in their homes and afford their health and pharmaceutical costs.
If you look at things that really affect people's lives - sport, the arts, charities - they were always at the back of the queue for government money - health, social security, defence, pensions were all way ahead. And each of those areas - sports, the arts, the lottery - got relatively petty cash from the government.
It's totally different from last year because I came in with good shape with no health worries so it was about going out there and running well and enjoying it.
I can understand why some people might look at me and say, 'What's she got to be depressed about?' I get that a lot in Britain, where mental health issues seem to be a big taboo.
You go to Scandinavia, and you will find that people have a much higher standard of living, in terms of education, health care and decent paying jobs.
High-quality food is better for your health.
I think the British people are very, very attached to the idea that the health service is free at the point of use. But there is no reason why every doctor, nurse and teacher in this country has to be employed by the state.
If I have my health I can carry on. There will be a point when I do quit but I have absolutely no idea when that is.
I'm very confident my health isn't going to allow me to be a good player, especially in the spring.
But if you're asking my opinion, I would argue that a social justice approach should be central to medicine and utilized to be central to public health. This could be very simple: the well should take care of the sick.
We've taken on the major health problems of the poorest - tuberculosis, maternal mortality, AIDS, malaria - in four countries. We've scored some victories in the sense that we've cured or treated thousands and changed the discourse about what is possible.
The biggest public health challenge is rebuilding health systems. In other words, if you look at cholera or maternal mortality or tuberculosis in Haiti, they're major problems in Haiti, but the biggest problem is rebuilding systems.
Once brave politicians and others explain the war on drugs' true cost, the American people will scream for a cease-fire. Bring the troops home, people will urge. Treat drugs as a health problem, not as a matter for the criminal justice system.
If you're too embarrassed and want to hide behind your computer screen, that's what this is for. It's about building confidence and that's what U by Kotex does. Girls owning their bodies and health.
One of the jewels in the crown of Labour's time in office was the rescue of the National Health Service. As the Commonwealth Fund, the London School of Economics and the Nuffield Foundation have all shown, health reforms as well as additional investment were essential to improved outcomes, especially for poorer patients.
Because we spoke so loudly, opponents of reproductive health access demonized and smeared me and others on the public airwaves. These smears are obvious attempts to distract from meaningful policy discussions and to silence women's voices regarding their own health care.
But you say, does it represent change? The change is that we are fighting an insurance industry that has killed health reform for generations. They're spending tens of millions of dollars right now to defeat this bill, and we're on the doorstep of winning a great victory for the American people.
When bureaucrats talk about increasing our 'access' to x, y or z, what they're really talking about is increasing exponentially their control over our lives. As it is with the government health care takeover, so it is with the newly approved government plan to 'increase' Internet 'access.'
For the past two years, President Obama has promised our children the moon, stars, rainbows, unicorns and universal health care for all. But the White House Santa's cradle-to-grave entitlement mandates are a spectacularly predictable bust.
If Obama wanted to make radical changes to America's health long-term, all he has to do is treble the price of sugar and salt.
I admit it: I had fun watching right-wingers go wild as health reform finally became law.
I'm on a health kick! I'm drawn to cheeseburgers, so I've got to just try and keep it on an even keel.
We can never, ever say it enough: every woman - especially every young woman-has to take charge of her health... and do what's right for her!
And so to those who suggest that we are somehow 'harming' young women by encouraging them to take charge of their health we say this: We are not harming young women by educating them. We are arming them with information that they will carry with them throughout their lives.
Both referred to the Affordable Care Act, which is the accurate title of the health care reform law, as 'Obamacare.' That is a disparaging reference to the President of the United States, it is meant as a disparaging reference to the President of the United States.
When President Obama passed health care reform, it was personal! And when Governor Romney says he would repeal Obamacare and put insurance companies back in charge of a woman's health, that's personal too.
As the President reviewed the state of the union and unveiled his second-term agenda, he fell short of adequately explaining how he intends to set America back on the course of fiscal responsibility and secure the fiscal health of the nation.
Mental agitations and eating cares are more injurious to health, and destructive of life, than is commonly imagined, and could their effects be collected, would make no inconsiderable figure in the bills of mortality.
It's never too late to take your heart health seriously and make it a priority.
Investing in health will produce enormous benefits.
You cannot achieve environmental security and human development without addressing the basic issues of health and nutrition.
I have always detested any departure from reality, an attitude which I relate to my mother's poor mental health.
When the Nobel award came my way, it also gave me an opportunity to do something immediate and practical about my old obsessions, including literacy, basic health care and gender equity, aimed specifically at India and Bangladesh.
The five different areas in which boys are in crisis - education jobs emotional health physical health and fatherlessness - are handled by different portions of the government.
Medical professionals, not insurance company bureaucrats, should be making health care decisions.
Look, all this is about is utilizing the rules of the Senate, using a majority of the senators, to make sure that we get health reform done. We cannot wait another day.
It is true that too much belief can be bad for your health.
Happiness lies first of all in health.
Today's business and health care climate may not be pleasant. Cutbacks, pay cuts and layoffs do not make anyone's job easy. But that does not mean that the humor need stop.
I'm a parent, and I try to take care of my health and keep my life in order. In the last few years I've really had to decide what's important to me, and it seems to me that my family and my health are top on the list. And those have nothing to do with show business.
The arts have always been an important ingredient to the health of a nation, but we haven't gotten there yet.
From dear, dear Gloria Swanson, I learned how to live long, happy and free of health problems. I owe her my life.
We all want more information available when making health care decisions for ourselves and our families.
By cutting critical domestic programs such as education, health, environmental protection, and veterans' services, this budget reveals misplaced priorities.
No employer is going to hire robustly until they know what the health care cost is going to be.
It's wonderful that so many people want to contribute to fighting aids or malaria. But, if somebody isn't paying attention to the overall health system in the country, a whole lot of money can be wasted.
Age does not depend upon years, but upon temperament and health. Some men are born old, and some never grow so.
Sleep is that golden chain that ties health and our bodies together.
Building a new Health and Hospitals Network is fundamental to building a stronger and fairer Australia.
The Australian Government's decision to take on the dominant funding role for the entire public hospital system is designed to: end the blame game eliminate waste and to shoulder the funding burden of the rapidly rising health costs of the future.
If the states and territories do not sign up to fundamental reform, then my message is equally simple: we will take this reform plan to the people at the next election - along with a referendum by or at that same election to give the Australian Government all the power it needs to reform the health system.
These are important reforms. Infrastructure, education, health, hospitals, closing the gap with indigenous Australians. Also the Apology to the first Australians. As Prime Minister of the country I am proud of each and every one of these achievements.
I am in very good health. I've never felt better.
I'm always active in trying to educate people when it comes to eating animal products, testing on animals, and the health benefits of being vegan, although I'm probably not the best person to be talking about the latter at the moment.
I'm against big bureaucracy in Washington making health care decisions. I just have an aversion to bureaucrats. But it's not just government bureaucrats. I don't like HMO bureaucrats and insurance company bureaucrats either.
And under the existing circumstances, I understand there are situations where people indeed need care and need services, but I believe in America that the majority of those people are getting those services under situations and circumstances that are afforded to them by their health care providers and their state government.
We have over 500,000 illegal immigrants living in Arizona. And we simply cannot sustain it. It costs us a tremendous amount of money of course in health care, in education, and then, on top of it all, in incarceration. And the federal government doesn't reimburse us on any of these things.
The truth is I had lots of rehab and now I have a clean bill of health.
I am passionate about talking to women about their breast health.
When you start fooling around with drugs, you're hurting your creativity, you're hurting your health. Drugs are death, in one form or another. If they don't kill you, they kill your soul. And if your soul's dead, you've got nothing to offer, anyway.
Do you suppose there is any living man so unreasonable that if he found himself stricken with a dangerous ailment he would not anxiously desire to regain the blessing of health?
I believe in health care reform.
In my forties, my optimism was boundless. I had really good health and tremendous success which allowed me to do anything I wanted.
Better understanding of the natural world not only enhances all of us as human beings, but can also be harnessed for the better good, leading to improved health and quality of life.
I have health. I have a wonderful support system. I have the admiration of millions of strangers, which I do not underestimate.
I basically believe the medical insurance industry should be nonprofit, not profit-making. There is no way a health reform plan will work when it is implemented by an industry that seeks to return money to shareholders instead of using that money to provide health care.
When you get older, your health becomes important to you, things start breaking down, you've always got a different ache or pain.
Aaron Pryor wants to get into the ring with me. He wants to be able to retire, and he will. For health reasons.
You bet every member of Congress who votes for this bill ought to read it, read it thoroughly, and understand that what we're looking at here amounts to nothing more than a government takeover of our health care economy, paid for with nearly a trillion dollars in new taxes on individuals and small businesses. And it must be opposed.
Most of the State of the Union will not be about Iraq. Most of the State of the Union will be about improving America's economy and providing greater access to health care for millions of American people, including senior citizens.
I believe you need scientific proof that something works before you entrust your health to it.
There is much that public policy can do to support American entrepreneurs. Health insurance reform will make it easier for entrepreneurs to take a chance on a new business without putting their family's health at risk. Tort reform will make it easier to take prudent risks on new products in a number of sectors.
Here in Silicon Valley, I have taken part in hundreds of conversations trying to convince people to dive in and become entrepreneurs. All too often, innovators with good, safe, jobs are unwilling to put their family's access to health care at risk by walking away from company-backed medical insurance.
Balance is key: I need to be successful in my career to feel fulfilled, be surrounded by people I care about to share it with, and have my health to be able to do the things I love to do!
The voice collects and translates your bad physical health, your emotional worries, your personal troubles.
When elected officials abandon our environment and ruin our natural resources, public health is endangered. I know the importance of providing a clean environment for our children I have attended more than one funeral for a child who has died from an asthma attack.
The fact is, if our primary legislative goals are to repeal and replace the health spending bill to end the bailouts cut spending and shrink the size and scope of government, the only way to do all these things it is to put someone in the White House who won't veto any of these things.
When women earn the money for the family, everyone in the family benefits. We also know that when women have an income, everyone wins because women dedicate 90% of the income to health, education, to food security, to the children, to the family, or to the community, so when women have an income, everybody wins.
We simply can no longer afford to deny the full potential of one half of the population. The world needs to tap into the talent and wisdom of women. Whether the issue is food security, economic recovery, health, or peace and security, the participation of women is needed now more than ever.
As a doctor, when I was minister of health and would go somewhere, little girls would come up to me and say, 'I want to be like you one day, I want to be a doctor.' Now, they tell me, 'I want to be president just like you.' All of us can dream as big as we want.
Advances in science and medical research and public health policies have meant that life expectancy for Australians is one of the highest in the world.
I'm active in PAX, which is a gun awareness organization. We treat gun safety as a public health issue.
When the courts decide that murderers, rapists, and others who maliciously break our social contract deserve health care that most working Americans can't afford, they are condemning good people to death.
We are all ill: but even a universal sickness implies an idea of health.
You may keep your beauty and your health, unless you destroy them yourself, or discourage them to stay with you, by using them ill.
Economists are coming to acknowledge that measures of national wealth and poverty in terms strictly of average income tell you little that is significant of the health or viability of a society.
In sharp contrast to the idea that this stage of life is enviable, we hear high levels of anxiety about getting old, anxieties about health, mobility, access to facilities, simple routine care and attention.
The answer was that in Burundi, having a clean bill of health has taken on a very particular meaning: unless and until you have paid for your hospital treatment, you simply can't leave, you are in effect a captive.
People take the mickey out of mental health, but it is very delicate.
Over 120 Aboriginal communities run their own health services - some have been doing so for 30 years. They struggle with difficult medical problems. They also try to deal with counselling, stolen generations issues, family relationships, violence, suicide prevention.
I'm actually tougher on myself as I get older. It's a vicious cycle. The things that are important in life are the things that you can't buy in life: love, health and happiness. I say that, and I believe that, and I try to live that.
My health is good and it's up to me to keep it that way.
I want to see far more decisions taken far closer to the patients, the passengers and the pupils. Far more power for locally and regionally elected politicians who understand best the needs of their areas. And far more say too for the dedicated staff at all levels in health and education.
I should do something about the cigarettes I quite accept that it's bad for your health, but you know a moderate tipple is positively beneficial and, at certain times, absolutely essential.
These are the same people who believe, in some cases, the federal government should not play any role in providing health care to our people or protecting the environment.
People don't trust private health insurance companies for all the right reasons.
If the goal of health-care reform is to provide comprehensive, universal health care in a cost-effective way, the only honest approach is a single-payer approach.
As a single-payer advocate, I believe that at the end of the day, if a state goes forward and passed an effective single-payer program, it will demonstrate that you can provide quality health care to every man, woman and child in a more cost-effective way.
Look, if you have somebody who doesn't have health insurance, who doesn't have a doctor or dentist, and in order to deal with their cold or flu or dental problem, they go to an emergency room - in general, that visit will cost ten times more than walking into a community health center.
I believe that investing in our children's development from the earliest age is the single most important contribution we can make to the health and wellbeing of our citizens, their capacity and the future prosperity of our state.
As I go to sleep I remember what my father said-that one can never be sure if one will awake. The way my health is now, this is becoming more and more real.
I think that everyone is saying all kinds of things about 'rich.' Not only am I rich from doing some of things I've been able to do, but I'm rich in spirit. I'm rich in health. I'm rich in every way possible.
Like it or not, in the end, it's one's body. It's literally what carries you through life. There's a reason for the saying, 'If you have your health, you have everything,' and it's true. Old age, disease - these are the great equalizers.
The Supreme Court has never ruled that Congress can use the Commerce Clause to require individuals to engage in an activity they have chosen to avoid. Yet that is precisely what Obamacare does: It forces Americans without health insurance to purchase coverage. Such a requirement is unprecedented and unconstitutional.
In other words we have marketed our way into this health crisis.
So I can't show you how, exactly, health care is a basic human right. But what I can argue is that no one should have to die of a disease that is treatable.
If any country was a mine-shaft canary for the reintroduction of cholera, it was Haiti - and we knew it. And in retrospect, more should have been done to prepare for cholera... which can spread like wildfire in Haiti... This was a big rebuke to all of us working in public health and health care in Haiti.
You can't have public health without a public health system. We just don't want to be part of a mindless competition for resources. We want to build back capacity in the system.
When I ran for Congress I promised to help make health care affordable again.
My background is in health care.
I know the exploding cost of health care is at the root of our long-term fiscal challenges.
Prior to passage of Obamacare, Americans spoke out against the individual mandate they didn't want to change the health care they had they didn't want a 3,000-page bill that empowered 15 Washington bureaucrats to decide the future of the doctor-patient relationship.
Americans want and deserve a broad array of health insurance choices so they can identify those that best fit their own individual or family needs. These choices expand when we allow free enterprise to foster innovation, not smother it with taxes and one-size fits all ideology.
Under President Obama's new health care law, Medicaid will become a very different health coverage program than first envisioned.
Originally created to serve the poorest and sickest among us, the Medicaid program has grown dramatically but still doesn't include the kind of flexibility that states need to provide better health care for the poor and disadvantaged.
The national debate on health care once centered on improving access to quality care, yet the effect of Obamacare will be the exact opposite, resulting in the shameful degradation of care for the neediest individuals.
Obamacare is a seriously flawed law that makes health care coverage less affordable, costs taxpayers more than advertised and fails to deliver on most of its other grand promises.
Giving governors more leeway in administering health care could represent a small, positive development in the ongoing saga of Obamacare. Unfortunately, instead of choosing flexibility, President Obama and his left-leaning advisers always default to rigid 'Washington knows best' answers.
The real truth is that the Obama administration is professional at bullying, as we have witnessed with ACORN at work during the presidential campaign. It seems to me they are sending down their bullies to create fist fights among average American citizens who don't want a government-run health care plan forced upon them.
Money spent on carbon cuts is money we can't use for effective investments in food aid, micronutrients, HIV/AIDS prevention, health and education infrastructure, and clean water and sanitation.
We are losing our living systems, social systems, cultural systems, governing systems, stability, and our constitutional health, and we're surrendering it all at the same time.
I am actually in poor health due to chronic fatigue and immune dysfunction syndrome, and my ability to work is greatly diminished right now, so I have to get better before I can start another big project.
I am now almost certain that we need more radiation for better health.
The way I feel today, as long as my health is good and I can handle myself well and people still come to my concerts, still buy my CDs, I'll keep playing until I feel like I can't.
Exercise keeps me occupied, which is good for my mental health.
By adopting a wonderful mutt, you'll save a life and help reduce animal homelessness while also boosting your chances of a more robust new furry friend, as mixed-breed dogs have demonstrated better health and longer life spans than their purebred cousins.
People are ready to say, 'Yes, we are ready for single-payer health insurance.' We are the only industrialized country in the world that does not have national health insurance. We are the richest in wealth and the poorest in health of all the industrial nations.
That's why I wrote this book: to show how these people can imbue us with hope. I read somewhere that when a person takes part in community action, his health improves. Something happens to him or to her biologically. It's like a tonic.
Everyone should have health insurance? I say everyone should have health care. I'm not selling insurance.
I believe health care is a civil right.
I have worked to expand the health care debate beyond the current for-profit system, to include a public option and an amendment to free the states to pursue single payer.
In the past week it has become clear that the vote on the final healthcare bill will be very close. I take this vote with the utmost seriousness. I am quite aware of the historic fight that has lasted the better part of the last century to bring America in line with other modern democracies in providing single payer health care.
Order is the sanity of the mind, the health of the body, the peace of the city, the security of the state. Like beams in a house or bones to a body, so is order to all things.
I would like to be as fit as I've always been. I've been blessed with good health, I've been blessed with stamina. Particularly for those great classical roles, you need an Olympian stamina. I, fortunately, have that.
The issues that matter to me are the social safety nets for people, health care, middle-class concerns. We need to take care of the middle class and the poor in our country.
We will always make sure player health and safety is our No. 1 priority in the NFL.
The fact is if we do our job right, if we keep worrying not about polls but about the jobs of the American people, about their health care, about their ability to educate their kids, stay in their homes and own their homes, send their kids to college, the basic pillars of a middle-class life, if we keep worrying about the future and building a stronger future for this country, these things will take care of themselves.
I think that the millions and millions of young Americans, young Americans, who have health care today, who wouldn't have had it if the president hadn't acted are better off.
My father was a small-town banker. He became very ill when I was 10 years old, and we went to California three years later in an attempt to recover his health, which never happened.
My hobbies include maintaining my physical and mental health. It's a full-time job. Yoga definitely helps for both of them. I'm a big fan of relaxing and not having a schedule. That's my best way to keep from going crazy.
It became obvious in 1957 that I was endangering my health by carrying so much weight.
As an integral part of the Department of Agriculture, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service monitors our Nation's agriculture to protect against agricultural pests and diseases.
Nurses are an integral component of the health care system, and it is important that we recognize the over 2.7 million registered nurses for the significant work that they do.
Well, you know my number one cause has always been that women's reproductive health needs to be protected.
I work very hard on my health, and I think about it, of course, like I've never thought before.
In mid-May, the House of Representatives approved the full amount of money that the Veterans Administration said was needed for next year - plus an additional $1 billion increase for veterans' health care.
Years ago nobody was elected on the economic ticket. It was either the education platform, or it was health or it was other issues. It is only recently that economic values have superceded every other human value.
I think there's a lot of work to be done with our societies. My biggest passions are the environment and health. And when I say 'health' I mean the secrets behind health and our food system.
Studies have shown that inmate participation in education, vocational and job training, prison work skills development, drug abuse, mental health and other treatment programs, all reduce recidivism, significantly.
We are particularly interested in the mental health programs and policies that support our troops and their families before, during, and after deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan.
The minute health care becomes a huge, unwieldy, expensive government bureaucracy it's a permanent feature of life and there's nothing anyone can do about it.
There's definitely evidence that capitalism at its most ruthless rewards psychopathic behavior. When you look at the worst corners of the American health insurance industry or the sub-prime banking market, it really feels like the more psychopathically someone behaves, the more it's rewarded.
There should not be one new dime in tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires as long as millions of children in America are poor, hungry, uneducated and without health coverage.
It was very clear to me in 1965, in Mississippi, that, as a lawyer, I could get people into schools, desegregate the schools, but if they were kicked off the plantations - and if they didn't have food, didn't have jobs, didn't have health care, didn't have the means to exercise those civil rights, we were not going to have success.
The U.N. Population Fund has a maternal health program in some Cameroon hospitals, but it doesn't operate in this region. It's difficult to expand, because President Bush has cut funding.
Neither left nor right has focused adequately on maternal health.
Health care comprises nearly 20 percent of our national economy, but outdated bureaucracy and red tape have stifled competition and raised costs. As a result, today more than 45 million are without any health coverage.
I really believe that beauty comes from health - sensible eating and exercise.
Third issue, and again I think it is important to note, anyone can make a mistake and any administration can make a mistake once in a while, but this is just a long train of abuses, an unbroken chain of following special interests rather than the health of the American people.
Challenges of historic import threaten America's future. Action on the deficit, economy, energy, health care and much more is imperative, yet our legislative institutions fail to act. Congress must be reformed.
Everybody likes Johnny Cash. I think the sad part of it is his health is givin' him problems.
I am hopeful for the American people that we can actually improve the outlook for bringing down costs in health care.
We've had Town Hall meetings, we've witnessed election after election, in which the American people have taken a position on the President's health care bill. And the bottom line is the people don't like this bill. They don't want it.
You know, there are people making a lot of money in this country who can actually afford their own health care. We are in a situation where we got a safety net in place in this country for people who frankly don't need one. We got to focus on making sure we got a safety net for those who actually need it.
Finally, the ecological health of the Mississippi River and its economic importance to the many people that make their living or seek their recreation is based on a healthy river system.
As founder and co-chair of the upper Mississippi River Congressional task force, I have long sought to preserve the river's health and historical multiple uses, including as a natural waterway and a home to wildlife, for the benefit of future generations of Americans.
Nor is it the least advantage to health, accruing from such a way of life, that it expose those who follow it to fewer temptations to vice, than persons who live in crowded society.
The best advice is to avoid foods with health claims on the label, or better yet avoid foods with labels in the first place.
Because what happens is, as the economy suffers, tax revenues go down. But unlike businesses, where at least your variable costs go down, in government your variable costs go up: unemployment insurance, workmen's compensation, health care benefits, welfare, you name it.
It has pleased and interested me to see how I could get along under difficult circumstances and with so much discomfort but as I say I was not sent out here to improve my temper or my health or to make me more content with my good things in the East.
We each have a personal myth, a vision of who we really are and what we want. Health means that part of what you want is to give to others.
I understand that in these difficult economic times, the potential for any additional expense is not welcomed by American businesses. But in the long run, the health insurance reform law promises to cut health-care costs for U.S. businesses, not expand them.
The concern right now is that families are paying for insurance, or getting insurance from their employer and trusting that health care will be available for their families. In too many instances now, the care they need isn't available.
I think that we have a number of different health care challenges in our country, and certainly addressing the uninsured is one, and the second is making sure that those with health insurance actually get the care that they assume they'll have available to them if they get sick.
The Patients' Bill of Rights is necessary to guarantee that health care will be available for those who are paying for insurance. It's a part of the overall health care picture.
When I turned 30, due to my father's heart history and my family genetics, I vowed to start seeing a cardiologist every year and just really be proactive and take my own heart health into my own hands.
I want to encourage everyone to be proactive with their health and get checked out.
During my nearly five years as director-general of WHO, high-level policymakers have increasingly recognized that health is central to sustainable development.
Health is the core of human development.
Intervention for the prevention and control of osteoporosis should comprise a combination of legislative action, educational measures, health service activities, media coverage, and individual counselling to initiate changes in behaviour.
Since the reduction of risk factors is the scientific basis for primary prevention, the World Health Organization promotes the development of an integrated strategy for prevention of several diseases, rather than focusing on individual ones.
That the AIDS pandemic is threatening sustainable development in Africa only reinforces the reality that health is at the center of sustainable development.
Women's health is one of WHO's highest priorities.
This is a historic moment in global public health, demonstrating the international will to tackle a threat to health head on.
This syndrome, SARS, is now a worldwide health threat... The world needs to work together to find its cause, cure the sick and stop its spread.
When they favor the access of other people to education and health care, the countries of the North not only demonstrate generosity or solidarity, but also implement the principles of respecting and promoting human rights.
I don't think it's government's job to find health care for people. I think it's the individual's job to find health care.
I think the first and principle objective is to repeal Obamacare before it does lasting, fundamental damage to our health care system, to our individual liberty, to the relationship each of us has with his or her doctor.
My motivation has always been health - eating healthy and taking care of myself.
With a lot of hair and make-up then I'm possibly, remotely attractive. But it's rare, I don't think I'm ugly but I'm nothing particularly special. I'm not a yoga and health girl. I don't exercise that much and I eat crap and smoke and bite my nails.
I retire with a smile on my face, in good health, and ready to spend autumns at my kids' games instead of my own. I'm excited to start the next chapter of my life.
The majority of Americans receive health insurance coverage through their employers, but with rising health care costs, many small businesses can no longer afford to provide coverage for their employees.
Skyrocketing insurance premiums are debilitating our Nation's health care delivery system and liability insurers are either leaving the market or raising rates to excessive levels.
In turn, more physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers are severely limiting their practices, moving to other states, or simply not providing care.
American families, families back home in Minnesota, know only too well that out-of-pocket expenses for health care have been rising at an astonishing rate.
America's veterans deserve the very best health care because they've earned it.
The Recovery plan will put money in the pockets of the American worker, create and save millions of new jobs and invest in crucial areas such as health care, education, energy independence and a new infrastructure.
For those that are working part time, in small businesses, or who are unemployed and do not currently have health insurance, we want to make sure that you are covered.
One of the major goals of health insurance reform is to bring down the cost.
We want to make sure that we incentivize the health care system to be designed to provide you the best quality health care possible.
Please be assured that as we move along through the implementation of health insurance reform, making sure that we find efficiencies within the existing system, is foremost on the President's mind.
President Obama stands ready to work with everyone, because that's what the American people expect and deserve - not for the short term political advantages, but the long term health of our country. We don't spend time trying to figure out what's in the minds of Republicans, we try to keep our focus on the American people.
I turned into a workaholic to the point of where my health was in jeopardy.
Health care costs blunt the competitive edge of American entrepreneurs, from the auto industry to internet start-ups.
By giving every American access to quality, affordable health care, they will create a more competitive, a stronger and more secure America!
To do what we are doing in this budget to our children, cutting their health care funds, decreasing opportunity, simply so we can pay for tax cuts and a war in Iraq is beyond belief, and we need to reverse it.
I'm committed to universal health coverage and education.
When you're young, you don't think very far ahead. You just think in terms of the next day, the next week, the next competition. You don't think about injuries that could threaten your long-term health.
I don't work out and be healthy and want a strong body because I want to look good in a bikini. I do all of those things for me and for my health. I'm not going on the cover of 'Maxim' and 'FHM' because that's not me.
What you see is when the government gets involved, you run out of money and health care gets rationed.
If you can eat 70 percent raw or introduce raw into your diet, it will help your health.
We all recognize that in recent decades, many important achievements have helped create a cleaner, healthier environment, yet our national needs in environmental health are not being fully met.
America's health care system provides some of the finest doctors and more access to vital medications than any country in the world. And yet, our system has been faltering for many years with the increased cost of health care.
The lack of health care coverage has remained very important to me during my time in Congress and as a member of the House Subcommittee on Health, I am working hard with my colleagues to correct these inequalities.
The American economy has always been driven by the entrepreneurial nature of its citizens, and blocking access to affordable health care will only suffocate growth within the small business sector of our economy.
The World Health Organisation has a lot of its medical experts sitting in Geneva while hospitals in Africa have no drugs and desperate patients are forced to seek medication on the black market.
I've never had any health problems and I'm Ruben, man, all the way through.
I never want to try to be a spokesperson for health and wellness because I most definitely am not the most in shape person in the world.
Health and education are always issues.
Some of the best health care services are free or cost very little and are even available to millionaires but hardly anyone knows they exist.
There are few in America that really know how to take advantage of the current health care system.
Family, nature and health all go together.
When my friends have a health concern, they call me. I've always been a vitamin taker. I also take digestive enzymes and antioxidants, and supplements that help with the thyroid and adrenals for my time-zone changes.
People really do make the assumption that I had some weirdo Hollywood upbringing, but my parents are incredibly down-to-earth people who worked really hard to raise us in a way that was health.
And whether it is equal pay, health care, Social Security, or family leave, this Congress has refused to address issues critical to hard-working American women.
Contraceptives have a proven track record of enhancing the health of women and children, preventing unintended pregnancy, and reducing the need for abortion.
For most women, including women who want to have children, contraception is not an option it is a basic health care necessity.
Half of all women who are sexually active, but do not want to get pregnant, need publicly funded services to help them access public health programs like Medicaid and Title X, the national family planning program.
I've been working with the National Lung Health Education Program to raise awareness about Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
For example, lead paint in old houses can be a greater threat to children's health than lead that may be under some industrial site where there are no children.
For that story, I took as my subject a young woman whom I got to know over the course of a couple of visits. I never saw her having any health problems - but I knew she wanted to be married.
Taste is the fundamental quality which sums up all the other qualities. It is the nec plus ultra of the intelligence. Through this alone is genius the supreme health and balance of all the faculties.
We must seek to persuade member states and institutions that better regulation in Europe does not mean cutting health and safety in the workplace, nor does it mean dismantling social standards.
From my time in Health I know that choice empowers people lives.
City governments ought to be abolished, if only as a public health measure.
Growing up, I saw my dad do charity work for children with health issues. That had a profound effect on me.
I don't think a director should have any kids. I don't even think it's good for your physical health. Even guys in their 30s look exhausted because directors never get enough sleep. What I do is stressful enough.
As I travel around Idaho and visit with seniors, I hear almost universal concern about the rising cost of health care, particularly the cost of prescription drugs.
We must take action now, by permitting re-importation, to ensure that health care and prescription drugs remain accessible and affordable for everyone.
While most Americans have access to the best oral health care in the world, low-income children suffer disproportionately from oral disease.
Recent demonstration projects have shown that with some Federal support, a little funding can go a long way toward ensuring that low-income children have access to good oral health care.
Fear is a question: What are you afraid of, and why? Just as the seed of health is in illness, because illness contains information, your fears are a treasure house of self-knowledge if you explore them.
In the midst of these hard times it is our good health and good sleep that are enjoyable.
Science is the international language, so when we are able to convince countries that good decision-making for human health and animal health is based upon science, that's a real success story for us.
I've always believed fitness is an entry point to help you build that happier, healthier life. When your health is strong, you're capable of taking risks. You'll feel more confident to ask for the promotion. You'll have more energy to be a better mom. You'll feel more deserving of love.
Who is there that ever receives a gift and tries to make bargains about it? Let us, then, return thanks for what He has bestowed on us. Who can tell whether, if we had had a larger share of ability or stronger health, we should not have possessed them to our destruction.
Having good health, being able to breathe and be happy, that's one of the most beautiful gifts. On top of that, I have the gift to play music and make people happy through that. I'm just telling you from my heart, I'm so in love with life.
Do you know what the overhead is of the Medicare system? One-point-zero-five percent. Do you know what - private insurance is 30 percent in overhead and profits? Given a choice how I'm going to improve health care, I'm going to take it away from private insurance profits and overhead. Wouldn't you?
What I am saying is, all health care has a problem with costs. Medicare is growing slower than the private insurance plans. Why? Because of their efficiency. They don't have to give money to shareholders. Why should be defending shareholders?
Is Medicare socialism? You want to get rid of Medicare. And a lot of the people against health care do. I want to preserve it and grow it.
Optimism is not inherently a superior way of viewing the world. Certainly doctors will say it might be better for one's physical health to be an optimist. But, morally speaking it may not be appropriate in certain circumstances.
I believe we can incentivize more affordable health care in general by better regulating insurance and creating meaningful competition for health care services.
I don't think it should be a surprise when we're talking about energy and trying to have more home-grown energy, be less reliant on foreign oil when you look at our health care that we're trying to get more affordable health care, that these are going to create major debates in this country and be somewhat polarizing.
I would prefer a public option that would be a competitive option that would allow people to buy into a Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, which is a series of private plans.
When Medicare was created for senior citizens and America 's disabled in 1965, about half of a senior's health care spending was on doctors and the other half on hospitals.
I have a computer screen near my seat where I monitor the overall health of the vehicle and pick up any problems that might be occurring early on or once we see any kind of a malfunction or anything unusual that's happening, we can look at the data and figure out what that is.
Health care costs are eating the Defense Department alive.
Disease and ill health are caused largely by damage at the molecular and cellular level, yet today's surgical tools are too large to deal with that kind of problem.
I recently formed a foundation to raise awareness for prostate cancer. I feel it's very necessary that men be more aware about prostate cancer and their health in general.
I had a job at a movie theater for like a year and a half and then a job at a health food store for, like, two years. Those were the only two jobs I ever had.
The people in Iraq lived essentially good lives. They had brilliant health and education systems. Saddam actually created an incredible infrastructure in a very difficult country, but they were a Mafia family. If you said anything against that regime or that family you would be killed instantly.
People who shop in health food stores never look healthy.
The West has been able to bring Afghanistan a much better health service, better education, better roads, a better economy, though some have benefited more some have benefited less from that economic well-being in Afghanistan.
Traditionally, Medicare's assurance has been that for the elderly and persons with disabilities that they will not be alone when confronted with the full burden of their health care costs.
The drug plans our seniors choose will define their health care options for years to come. If they do not make a decision and wait until the May 15 deadline passes, they will face penalties and higher prices for the drugs that they need.
Because I would give it all back to have my health.
My daily schedule is quite hectic, but I have to put my health first in order to be the best mom and wife I can be.
The ingredients of health and long life, are great temperance, open air, easy labor, and little care.
Big Brother is on the march. A plan to subject all children to mental health screening is underway, and the pharmaceuticals are gearing up for bigger sales of psychotropic drugs.
I remember the first pangs of stress arriving at the end of school. Once I graduated I had to get a full-time job, worry about health insurance, saving money, paying rent - things I'd never thought about before.
In Philadelphia, our public safety, poverty reduction, health and economic development all start with education. We can't grow the middle class if we don't give our kids the tools they need to innovate and invent.
I believe that music in itself heals and that everything is about the power of the mind. I thought if you are happy, you don't get ill. Your health is in your head. When you are satisfied with your work, you don't get ill.
I cherish the creation of public space and services, especially health, housing and the comprehensive education system which dared to give so many of us ideas 'above our station.'
Remember our proud history of social justice, universal health care, public pensions and making sure no one is left behind. Let's continue to move forward.
I hope for your help to explore and protect the wild ocean in ways that will restore the health and, in so doing, secure hope for humankind. Health to the ocean means health for us.
Health is the vital principle of bliss, and exercise, of health.
Today there are people trying to take away rights that our mothers, grandmothers and great-grandmothers fought for: our right to vote, our right to choose, affordable quality education, equal pay, access to health care. We the people can't let that happen.
Rogue internet pharmacies continue to pose a serious threat to the health and safety of Americans. Simply put, a few unethical physicians and pharmacists have become drug suppliers to a nation.
I'm nutty for nutrition. I've become one of those people who can't stop talking about the connection between food and health. Now that I know how much changing what you eat can transform your life, I can't stop proselytizing.
There was never going to be a right time for a band that was still recording and had health in its environment, had made a very good record and was playing well.
There are a range of associated impacts related to increasing temperatures which affect both evaporation rates and river systems, which are already over stressed, and these will hit farming communities and the health of crop lands.
My top three priorities for my first term in Congress are growing our economy providing for quality, affordable health care and keeping our nation and communities safe.
I do see women voters shifting to the Republican Party and doing so significantly. And the issue that's doing this is the fear the federal government will prevail in making the Affordable Health Care Act permanent law and how that will hurt small businesses.
Women oftentimes are the ones making those economic decisions, sitting around the kitchen table and trying to figure out how to pay for rising gas prices or food prices or the health insurance costs. And I think that they see where they expect their leaders in Congress to also make those tough decisions.
Canada is currently the only major industrialized country in the world that does not allow any private administration of health care services that are provided by the public system.
Small businesses pay 18 percent more than big businesses for health care, the same health care, just because they're small and they have too small a pool of risk.
Health care is the No. 1 concern of small businesses and the status quo is untenable.
We see tremendous excitement from small-business people about the administration and about the attention and commitment that the president has to do things that really make a difference. I think they recognize that health care is one of those. I think they recognize that what we've been doing in the Recovery Act with our loan programs has mattered.
We don't want the efficiency of the federal government and the compassion of the IRS to run our health care.
The great equalizer is health. If you don't have it, you're screwed.
The reason Gov. Romney passed Romneycare as governor of Massachusetts in 2006 was because many Republicans viewed health care reform, mandates and all, as a way to inoculate against Democratic charges that Republicans didn't care about people who lacked health insurance.
Well, what did we buy? Instead of a leaner, smarter government, we bought a bureaucracy that now tells us which light bulbs to buy, and which will put 16,500 IRS agents in charge of policing President Obama's health care bill.
I'm up here in Cleveland tonight and there are a lot of folks who are concerned about it. Twenty-five percent of the people up here get their health care through religious organizations and so that religious freedom issue is very important to them.
Americans oppose Obamacare because they understand that it is inconsistent with our liberties and our idea of limited government and that it will destroy the best health care system in the world.
And in terms of their crown jewel legislative achievement: who knew that when asked, 'will government impose a new federal mandate requiring middle class Americans to buy health insurance whether they can afford it or not?' The answer would be 'Yes we can!'
The more you worry, the more you throw off the delicate balance of hormones required for health.
The truth is that stress doesn't come from your boss, your kids, your spouse, traffic jams, health challenges, or other circumstances. It comes from your thoughts about these circumstances.
Five years ago we were working on a new album when my health began failing.
America enjoys the best health care in the world, but the best is no good if folks can't afford it, access it and doctor's can't provide it.
I can support co-ops if they want to do it as we've known co-ops in America for 150 years - where they serve the purposes of the consuming public, whether it's health care or whether it's co-ops as we know them in the Midwest, providing electricity or to sell supplies to farmer.
Decades ago, women suffered through horrifying back-alley abortions. Or, they used dangerous methods when they had no other recourse. So when the Republican Party launched an all-out assault on women's health, pushing bills to limit access to vital services, we had to ask: Why is the GOP trying to send women back... to the back alley?
It's been a long road back to health and fitness for me. I am just glad to have been given the opportunity to do what I love most.
In choosing global corporate partners UNICEF emphasises compatibility with our core values and looks to build alliances that advance our mission of ensuring the health, education, equality and protection for all the world's children.
By offering individuals ownership and control of their health care coverage, we return control to the patients and that is exactly where it should be.
San Francisco businesses face many challenges, including high rents, regulatory burdens, and the rising cost of workers compensation insurance and employee health plans.
Not really in all honesty because until you take control of your own health and go to your own doctor and have your own doctor tell you what's going to work for you.
It is essential that the women's preventive coverage benefit, including contraception, be available to all women, regardless of what health plan they have or where they work - as Congress intended. Providing access to birth control just makes good sense.
It is important for women to have a choice, to have an opportunity to plan their families, because if they don't, the Republicans have said this is an ownership society. You are on your own, and they're going to begrudge that child everything, from WIC to a Pell Grant to health insurance.
Too many of my constituents, like many other hard working Americans across the country, are suffering unnecessarily due to our flawed health care system.
The time is now for Congress to address health care in America.
Our system of private health insurance that fails to provide coverage to so many of our citizens also contributes to the double-digit health care inflation that is making America less competitive in the global economy.
In this most powerful nation in the world, lack of access to health care should not force local and state governments, companies and workers into bankruptcy, while causing unnecessary illness and hospitalization.
All Americans should have access to quality, affordable health care.
Working families need to know that we will work to protect their health needs, promote the development of safe, effective medicines, and guarantee patient rights.
After I had gone through this matter with the President I told him of my condition of health and that my doctors felt that I must take a complete rest and that I thought that that meant leaving the Department finally in a short time.
I have long recognized a link between fitness and mental health and I think we need to encourage young people to take part in sports and team activities because we know it has such positive results.
We need a vibrant Medicaid program and strategies to expand affordable access to health care for all, especially for the specialty care services that community health centers do not provide.
In Illinois, community, migrant, homeless and public housing health centers operate 268 primary care sites and serve close to 1 million patients every year.
Each and every day health centers provide high-quality primary and preventive care to our constituents.
Community health centers do a great deal with limited resources. They provide critical medical care services to many who would otherwise have no other place to go or would end up in an emergency room.
As grateful as we are for all the work the community health centers do, it is also important that we recognize that they cannot solve the health care crisis facing our Nation by themselves.
Therefore in medicine we ought to know the causes of sickness and health.
Unfortunately, we are still in an age where individuals may be discriminated against because of health conditions.
Research clearly shows us that the earlier women think about maintaining their bone mass and take the steps to do so, the better their health will be in the long run.
I want to thank the efforts of the American Public Health Association and its 200-plus partners who have organized events around the Nation that serve to raise everyone's awareness of the need to improve public health.
It is great good health to believe, as the Hindus do, that there are 33 million gods and goddesses in the world. It is great good health to want to understand one's dreams. It is great good health to desire the ambiguous and paradoxical.
I know that it isn't just violence against women, it's how do we support ourselves and our families, how do we deal with health care for ourselves and our families? It's a bigger picture.
We have one of the few societies, the only one I can think of right offhand, where your health care is so tied to your job, so that when an American company has to hire, they have to think about health care.
Health care for all Americans is the most pressing domestic issue today. It's far past time for the President and Congress to deliver health care to everyone.
Well, my view is that the insurance companies have done awfully well and spent a lot of money on a lot of things that don't have anything to do with health care.
Coal is absolutely critical to our nation's economic health and global competitiveness.
While some people are certainly seeing economic benefits, many others are unemployed, underemployed, without health insurance and struggling to make ends meet.
Jobs are disappearing from every sector of the economy, from engineering to health care workers, forcing hundreds of thousands of families into unemployment and low-paying jobs.
As state leaders, I think its important for us to provide our perspectives on issues we face every day - like access to school spending, access to health care and governing in a global economy.
The main thing is that it's nice to see these young people - 9 to 14 years old - take the opportunity to get more involved in their health and fitness. We need more kids to be more active.
As patients and consumers, we are better informed today about our health care than any previous generation.
A modern health and social care system has to be completely focussed on the needs of its users.
Health has always been an important thing to me. I exercise and try to take care of myself, and drink a lot of water! And I push that to my kids so that they can carry on that same energy.
We face a choice this election. President Obama is fighting for changes that grow the economy from the middle out and help all Americans succeed - jobs, education, health reform, the DREAM Act, equal pay for women. He is moving us forward with opportunity today for prosperity tomorrow. Mitt Romney wants to take us back to yesterday.
Despite Arizona's remarkable growth in recent years, we have met the current federal health standards for ozone pollution and the Environmental Protection Agency recently approved our dust control plan.
During the last regular session and the most recent special session, measures that I see as little more than Band-Aids were applied to three health programs in the state.
It is time to maximize and prioritize our health care dollars.
Of course the EU and member states must work to ensure that people moving from one country to another understand their obligations and their rights in areas like health, road safety and further education.
If bringing up the next generation is important, why aren't they the best qualified, the best paid? Why aren't we as concerned about their career progression as we are about those who work in the education or health services?
Health economists have estimated that an injection of $250 million per year in Indigenous clinical care, and $50 million in preventative care, is required to provide services at the same level as for any other group with the health conditions of Indigenous Australians.
The aging of the U.S. population is a theme that we believe strongly in and the health care sector is really right in the bulls eye of this particular theme.
Our health care system is the finest in the world, but we still have too many uninsured Americans, too high prices for prescription drugs, and too many frivolous lawsuits driving our physicians out of state or out of business.
But I don't want to be out there anymore I don't want people asking me about my health issues, about my kids. I choose not to be a public paparazzi girl on purpose.
The time to read is any time: no apparatus, no appointment of time and place, is necessary. It is the only art which can be practiced at any hour of the day or night, whenever the time and inclination comes, that is your time for reading in joy or sorrow, health or illness.
We can all agree that no American should lose their life savings or their home because of illness or injury and that the rising cost of health care severely burdens individuals, families and businesses.
At least Obama was half-way honest about how much he was going to spend on health care. He had it at $600 billion. And the real number... is $1.2 trillion.
As the GAO report recognizes, the long-term health of our forests relies on additional fuel reduction options and funding to reduce the risks that catastrophic fire poses to our nation's ecosystems, communities and federal budgetary resources.
And what we're doing in Ohio is we're moving from a basic manufacturing economy to one that's diversified, including energy and health care and agriculture and IT.
But, at the end of the day, we need to represent the taxpayers who have made enormous sacrifices. Many have lost their jobs. Many of them have seen their companies - they don't have a pension - they have seen their companies cut the match for their 401(k). They have seen their health care benefits be shredded.
In addition, California spends nearly $1 billion a year in Medi-Cal services for an average of 780,000 illegal immigrants a month, over and above emergency health services.
The biggest mistakes, early on, involved foreign policy and involved the strategy for health care.
On health care, virtually every political error that could be made was made.
My health is the No. 1 concern and my longevity is the No. 1 concern.
In some ways I'm still recovering from the trial. My health is not as good as it ought to be. I've gone back to practicing law and it seems to have taken a toll for whatever reason.
Today right here in America we have 50 million people without health insurance.
You know, for most seniors Medicare is their only form of health care.
My cooking philosophy, what I try to do, is to make a cuisine where the produce and the product shines, compared to some current trends that are maybe more adding additional things, like molecular cuisine, with a lot of additives and chemicals, which are now showing that they could be bad for your health.
I've never followed a vegan or vegetarian diet in the past, but I think I could do it. It would not be easy. I have worked with nutritionists who have said a vegan diet is not necessarily all positive for your health, because you need nutrients you only find in meats. I believe in a balanced diet.
Taste is developed by the diversity of the products one can sample. I think our children today may be missing an education about food. We must teach them to know their cuisine and to know the equilibrium of nourishment. That is very important for health.
Raising taxes is the last thing we should do amid the weakest economic recovery since World War II. Unfortunately, even if we avoid the full 'Taxmageddon' scenario, President Obama's health care law also contains a new surtax on investment that will take effect in 2013.
By the Obama administration's reasoning, it would be constitutionally permissible to make Americans purchase nearly any product (broccoli, gym membership) that improved their health and thereby contributed to lower health-care costs.
Think for a moment about what Obamacare has done: The federal government has come up with its own (ever-evolving) definition of 'health insurance,' which now includes free access to sterilization, contraception, and certain abortifacients such as the morning-after pill.
If Obamacare is allowed to stand - and Congress is allowed to make the purchase of government-endorsed health insurance compulsory - there will be no meaningful limit on Washington's reach into the lives of the American people. That is certainly not what the Founders intended.
Illegal drug use runs contrary to the image of health depicted by cycling. Distributors of these drugs must be prosecuted more harshly as they are ciminals.
The health industry, the fitness industry, was really starting to pick up. This was around the mid 80's.
The result was, of course, that today, tragically, more than 40 million Americans don't have health insurance, and for many, not having health insurance means they don't have access to good health care.
I brought together experts from health care, business, academic institutions, and the community to develop a comprehensive blueprint for eliminating racial and ethnic disparities in health care in the City of Boston.
Make hunger thy sauce, as a medicine for health.
There is just no reason why the richest nation in the world can't provide health care to all its people.
In the field of health care, we are giving people access to insurance who have not had it before.
It was one of the most exciting, perfect evenings of my life, my solo debut at Carnegie Hall. And knowing we were all there to raise money for Gay Men's Health Crisis made the evening an extraordinary experience.
More and more surveys in the US are indicating a change in values taking place among consumers, who become more concerned about quality of life, food, health and the environment.
And if you're not going to have a clear health threat, you don't want to panic people.
Most illegals are without health insurance, and when these workers need emergency healthcare, the American taxpayer gets stuck with the bill.
Illegal immigrants are beginning to comprise a black market class of workers in our society, jeopardizing the financial health of companies which play by the rules, while themselves vulnerable to the exploitation by those willing to take advantage of their illegal status.
Any veteran can tell you it is already hard enough to see a doctor down at the VA and get the health care they were promised when they signed up to serve this country.
I was for civil unions and believed strongly that the flow of benefits and protections that would be provided in a civil union for same-sex couples, the decisions that have to be made, when health hardships are faced, when economic hardships are faced, I wanted all of those protections. I never strayed from them.
You're entitled to Medicaid regardless of your income. Don't worry about your health care.
Every American has a right to affordable, high-quality health care.
Health reform is an essential part of restoring America's economy and maintaining our competitiveness.
But reducing harmful emissions, abating our dependence on foreign oil and developing alternative renewable energy sources have benefits that go beyond environmental health, they improve personal health, enhance national security and encourage our nation's economic viability.
Pharmaceutical companies are enjoying unprecedented profits and access with this Administration. Yet the Republicans' prescription drug plan for seniors has been a colossal failure, and over 43 million Americans wake up every morning without health insurance.
Democrats believe we must have comprehensive health care reform that includes giving the federal government authority to negotiate lower prices with drug companies.
People are at their happiest if they are true to themselves. I think that applies to their chosen profession, friends and relationships. It goes for your health too. If you are true to yourself, it seems to me everything should work out pretty well.
When I left my parents' home when I was 19, I went to the University of Florida, and within 24 hours was in the mental health department. And within 20 minutes, I was being told by the director there that they didn't have what I needed there.
Irregular contact with doctors means many men fail to receive any preventive care for potentially life-threatening conditions. In addition, when men do seek care, embarrassment can often prevent them from openly discussing health concerns with their physicians.
This change to a higher phase of alert is a signal to governments, to ministries of health and other ministries, to the pharmaceutical industry and the business community that certain actions now should be undertaken with increased urgency and at an accelerated pace.
We have really good data that show when you take patients and you really inform them about their choices, patients make more frugal choices. They pick more efficient choices than the health care system does.
Paul Farmer has helped to build amazing health care system in one of the poorest areas of Haiti. He founded Partners in Health, which serves the destitute and the sick in many parts of the world from Haiti to Boston and from Russia to Peru.
I had all kinds of food issues, including health concerns and weight concerns.
Using lots of fresh foods, fruits and vegetables, helps to keep the menu buoyant - I don't know if that's the right word, but it keeps a balance of freshness and health.
My home State of North Carolina ranks 12th in the United States for increased aging population and, according to a national report, 41st in overall health. According to this same report, individuals aged 50+ are the least healthy.
I look forward to working with our leadership team to advance the causes of smaller government, lower taxes, eliminating terrorism, and providing affordable health care, among other issues.
The first draught serveth for health, the second for pleasure, the third for shame, and the fourth for madness.
Col. Shaffer is prohibited by his lawyer from talking. He's at great risk. They want to take away his pay and his health care benefits so they can hold it over his head and not allow him to talk while he's under suspension. This is not America.
Today, diabetes is now epidemic, according to the Centers for Disease Control, the National Institutes of Health, the American Diabetes Association and other national healthcare leaders.
I am not the Conservative Party's health care spokesman. I'm fond of Andrew Lansley, and I strongly support David Cameron as party leader.
In speech after speech on his health care plan, the President has tried to convince us that what he is proposing will be good for America. But, how can it be good for America if it raises taxes by a half trillion dollars and costs a trillion dollars or more to implement?
As problems like identity theft become more prevalent, now more than ever, Americans need to take their financial health seriously - and this information is of the utmost importance.
The people of South and Central Texas and the Coastal Bend need jobs, they need health care, they need water infrastructure improvements, they need a quality education, and they need the resources to keep our borders safe and secure.
Most Americans want health insurance.
I think the thing that the American people want is for the divisive debate on health care to stop.
If you have a student who graduates from college and they don't have a job, they are now able to stay on their family health plan.
If you look at the cost of providing health insurance, it actually doesn't cost more to provide a plan with contraceptive coverage than it does without.
I'm a big proponent of having a mental health component go along with whatever the physical realities are.
My priority is to turn people - especially kids - on to sports and being active so they don't even have to think about it being good for their health. If people participate for the fun of it, and believe me - it is fun, then fitness programs will be much more successful.
We take our kids for physical vaccinations, dental exams, eye checkups. When do we think to take our - our son or daughter for a mental health checkup?
While Haiti has recently celebrated more than 200 years of independence from French colonial rule, the citizens of the island remain vulnerable to poverty, poor health, and political chaos.
The real cure for what ails our health care system today is less government and more freedom.
America's doctors, nurses and medical researchers are the best in the world, but our health care system is broken.
In my case, I pay a standard premium to participate in the Federal Employees' Health Benefits Plan for my wife and myself out of each month's paycheck.
Seven presidents before him - Democrats and Republicans - tried to expand health care to all Americans. President Obama got it done.
We don't come to Canada for our health. We can think of other ways of enjoying ourselves.
If a State has reliable scientific information that demonstrates that a warning is needed for a particular food, then in the interest of public health, it should share that information with the FDA and petition for a new national standard.
But the dollars spent on economic incentives and new investment strategies are wasted unless we seriously address the two most important economic issues in Kansas: education and health care.
I believe we all agree that, for the health of Kansas, nothing is more important than education.
We have by far the most expensive health system in the world. We spend 50 percent more per person than the next most costly nation. Americans spend more on health care than housing or food.
General Motors spends more on health care than steel.
More than five million seniors have already saved money on their prescription drugs, and almost 33 million have benefited from free preventive services. The president cracked down hard on Medicare and health care fraud, recovering a record-breaking $10.7 billion over the last three years, protecting our seniors. That's what change looks like.
If you're self-employed, between jobs, or can't get insurance through work, you'll have access to affordable health insurance as good as Congressman Paul Ryan's.
If you're under 26, you can stay on your parents' plan. You can go back to school or get extra training without fear of a health catastrophe bankrupting your family. Over three million previously uninsured young adults are now on their parents' plans.
Because when we think about the real facts: 44 million Americans without health insurance, millions without jobs, a 50-year high on mortgage foreclosures, an historic high the third year in a row on personal bankruptcies.
I try to make my bed every day for mental health. Coming home to an unmade bed or a room with clothes all over will depress me.
We can't afford to sacrifice another generation of American children to bureaucratic politics. We've got to get it done. The future, the health, the life - our nation depends on it and it's just foolish to think or act otherwise.
It's never occurred to me to worry about my health, or that I'll get old, or that people will stop laughing at me.
Even if you walk exactly the same route each time - as with a sonnet - the events along the route cannot be imagined to be the same from day to day, as the poet's health, sight, his anticipations, moods, fears, thoughts cannot be the same.
We cannot seek or attain health, wealth, learning, justice or kindness in general. Action is always specific, concrete, individualized, unique.
My good health is due to a soup made of white doves. It is simply wonderful as a tonic.
For many years I didn't have health insurance.
One in seven Americans lives without health insurance, and that's a truly staggering figure.
The study also included the disturbing revelation that most of the troops who reported having mental health problems also reported that they did not seek or did not receive care for their problems.
The essence of a government health care system - for people who have never lived under it and don't know - is waiting, waiting, waiting. You wait for everything. You wait for years for operations that are routine in America.
Government health care changes the relationship between the citizen and the state, and, in fact, I think it's an assault on citizenship.
We immigrants can sometimes sound a little hysterical about this because we come from places that have tried this and we know where it leads. Anybody who's lived in countries with socialized health care knows that it becomes the dominant political issue.
This is a matter of public health. The public was sick and tired of DeLay and his corruption.
The good news is, Americans know firsthand the benefits of a free market - more choices, lower prices, higher quality - and there is no reason why we cannot help them see these same benefits in health care.
To enjoy the glow of good health, you must exercise.
With more than 1,300 sites of care, VA operates the largest integrated health care system in the county.
The war on terrorism has made national security a legitimate concern, and a rising deficit, changes brought on by globalization and even the price of oil have thrown the nation's economic health into question.
We must ensure that every worker has healthcare and is able to save for their retirement. We must ensure that our workers have safe and health working conditions.
It is imperative for the health and safety of millions of workers that we ensure that breathing systems needed for protection are widely available, convenient and economical.
Our government has made a number of promises to the men and women who served in our nation's armed forces. Sadly, these promises of health care, education and other benefits have existed more in rhetoric than in reality.
Every day I wake up and I lay in bed counting my blessings and saying my prayers for how fortunate I am to have great fans and health and family.
We want to repeal the ObamaCare tax. We want to save middle class families from European health care. And that's what we're going to do as a party and that's what Mitt Romney will do on day one.
In 2001, America 's hospitals provided nearly $21 billion in uncompensated health care services.
Emergency health care for illegal aliens along the southwestern border is already costing area hospitals $200 million a year, with perhaps another $100 million in extended care costs.
As we get closer to the end of this Congress, we should be addressing the urgent needs of the American people - the war in Iraq, affordable health care, a sensible energy policy, quality education for our children, retirement security, and a sound and fair fiscal policy.
Every day, families in the United States face the stark choice between a roof over their heads and food on the table. Buying health insurance, owning a home, and saving up for college are just too far out of their reach.
I also rise today in strong support of forward movement on the implementation of health information technology, which has the potential to save the United States billions of dollars in health care costs each year.
Singing really oxygenates your blood. You stretch your lungs and take in much more air into them than before. It's really good for your health.
People were concerned about national security, and that precluded us from having the opportunity to break through on the issues that we cared most about - the economy, education and health care.
I'd just turned 50, weighed 285, and my doctor had read me the riot act about my health.
Myths about the dire effects of genetically modified foods on health and the environment abound, but they have not held up to scientific scrutiny. And, although many concerns have been expressed about the potential for unexpected consequences, the unexpected effects that have been observed so far have been benign.
If your access to health care involves your leaving work and driving somewhere and parking and waiting for a long time, that's not going to promote healthiness.
Congress is attempting to eviscerate women's health care. Like many women across America, I am outraged.
The truth is women use contraception not only as a way to prevent unintended pregnancies, but also to improve their health and the health of their families. Increased access to contraception is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality.
Thankfully, President Obama has stood firmly behind women's health care issues by supporting coverage for contraception and reaffirming commitment to organizations like Planned Parenthood.
Conservatives shouldn't count on the Supreme Court to do our work for us on Obamacare. The Court may rule as it should, and strike down the mandate. But it may not. And even if it does, the future of health care in America - and for that matter, the future of limited government - depends ultimately on the verdict of the American people.
The old problems - love, money, security, status, health, etc. - are still here to plague us or please us.
Yes, I do agree we need health care reform however, this bill badly misses the mark. Congress can and must do better for the American people.
It's time for Haitians to have access to health care. It's time to open our borders to the Haitian diaspora, open our markets to the world. It's time to open our country to potential investors.
After the break up of the municipality and the loss of his income my father lost health and spirits.
The long, cold Minnesota winters instilled in me a fascination for exotic far off places I aspired toward a career in tropical diseases and world health problems.
My health is wonderful. I work out. I'm working. Playing music. I have a beautiful wife, a nice home, a nice car, I got money in the bank. I got three beautiful dogs that love me. Like I said, I'm blessed. I survived.
However, many skilled medical volunteers are turned away because community health centers cannot afford to cover their additional medical liability insurance.
Moreover, health center services save money and lives by treating diseases before they become chronic conditions, require hospital care or require a trip to the emergency room.
Security is still the most important issue facing Washington state residents and millions of Americans - the security of having a job, of access to affordable health care, of a quality education, and of protecting our homeland and defending our nation.
There is nothing new about these Republican attacks on our family planning decisions. In fact, from the moment they came into power, Republicans in the House of Representatives have been waging a war on women's health.
You can't make assumptions when you're dealing with health issues.
I am extremely proud of my service with the government and my efforts to help safeguard public health and protect our country against the scourge of offensive biological warfare.
Why do British people make such good TV? It's so annoying. Stop it. Is it because they have free health care? Uggh.
Man becomes weak or ill by accident as a consequence of the lack of resources. Even the most severally ill patients must be treated with the aim of restoring their health.
Those were the ideals that drove us to nationalization of the health service.
Pizza certainly has its place in school meals, but equating it with broccoli, carrots and celery seriously undermines this nation's efforts to support children's health and their ability to learn because of better school nutrition.
Swedes are such a civilised, perfect society - at least on the surface. There's a great safety net, a huge middle class, free education, free health care. People are very polite, they wait their turn. They're not too loud, they're not too quiet, but sometimes it's a little too perfect.
A common misconception is that the costs of health care are cheaper in rural America, when in fact the reality is that they are more expensive and more difficult to access.
Whether it's making sure that families have access to quality health care and child care, or making sure that our children receive the best educational opportunities we can give them, we must remain committed to these needs because our children are our future.
To maximize our potential to enhance our health and our knowledge, we should remain open to new understanding and evolving technology or resources that might inspire a change in our approach to these important questions.
The infrastructure for linking environmental health and public health is not working as well as it should.
Moreover, environmental health at the local level has become narrowly focused, very much defined around regulations and the attendant regulatory debates.
In addition, I'll be attending women's health expos and medical conferences with the goal to promote dialogue between women and their health-care providers.
To get away from poverty, you need several things at the same time: school, health, and infrastructure - those are the public investments. And on the other side, you need market opportunities, information, employment, and human rights.
I am enormously honored to be one of the spokesmen of the New Age Womens Health Campaign, so you'll be seeing me in public service announcements and public appearances supporting the campaign.
Many of us believe that we need health care reform. That being said - Americans felt like they weren't being listened to. There were a lot of people across the political spectrum who said we don't want a one-size-fits-all healthcare plan.
I never expected in a million years that I would have the honor to become an advocate of women's health care and education, and I'd dive on a live grenade to get this message out, so thank you for this forum.
When I gave birth to my fourth child, I suffered from post partum hemorrhaging. I almost lost my life. I was lucky to be under the care of trained health care personnel. I started wondering then what was happening to women in rural villages.
The place I feel most at home is when I have health insurance. I really don't care how I get it, whether it's on film, or television or waiting tables, you know?
I suspect the psychological pressure associated with that crisis caused the first mental blackout I had ever suffered. It contributed to a deterioration in my health that later required the insertion of a heart pacemaker.
Making sure that health care is affordable for every American. I think that is very, very important.
Looking at affordable health care, I think it is important that we look not only at prescription drugs, but also make sure that there is a major focus on health care.
I never could have achieved the success that I have without setting physical activity and health goals.
The H-1B visa program which helps sustain our rapidly growing economy and also helps meet the health care needs of families living in rural New Mexico.
We are involved in youth testing internationally. We want to try to prove without a shadow of a doubt the relationship between physical fitness and health, not just physical fitness and ability to perform.
We've had risk assessments performed by Harvard University, which said that even if we did have a small number of cases in this country that the likelihood of it spreading or getting into any kind of human health problem is very, very small.
Great Britain had a much different situation than we do and did here in the United States, in that they had literally thousands of infected animals with human health risks. Their infectivity in this disease happened before very much was known about it.
I have to say that in this particular cow that we're dealing with, those parts of the cow were removed, and so we don't think there's any risk or very negligible risk to human health with this particular incident.
It's not health care reform to dump more money into Medicaid.
But the fact of the matter is that all scientific evidence would show, based upon what we know about this disease, that muscle cuts - that is, the meat of the animal itself - should not cause any risk to human health.
Since the 1960s, there has been a tremendous expansion of the resources available to pay for health care.
I think it's important that, as a matter of course, the brain and spinal column were removed from this cow, and that would be the material that would cause concern in terms of human health. And therefore we're confident in the safety of the food supply.
If it's really so wonderful that both partners have to work to make a living to pay for their house, for health insurance, someone is obviously going to get the short end of the stick.
Domestic discretionary spending on education and health care and the environment has been growing at 2 to 3 percent a year. He says we have to rein it in, but he ignores the spending category that is the big spike in the budget.
I want to assure your excellency that I am occupying myself permanently and jointly with my team to achieve a solution as soon as possible to this crisis, the principal objective being the safeguarding of the health and life of those who are inside.
I think it's time to have a celebration of life and renew our vows. And this time we're going to write the vows because they're going to mean a lot more. We certainly put the 'in sickness and in health' vow to the test the last year and half.
They've got to tell us what is necessary to ensure the future health of the river system.
What we know from World War I is that some of our troops had acute symptoms of exposure to chemicals, had bad health and died because of chemical exposure in World War I.
If you believe that health care is a public good to be guaranteed by the state, then a single-payer system is the next best alternative. Unfortunately, it is fiscally unsustainable without rationing.
I think that some of our soldiers die in the battlefield and some come home to bad health and die prematurely, just by the nature of the kind of business they're in.
Everyone knows that exercise can improve your health. Exercise is a key part of managing your weight and maintaining healthy hearts, lungs, and other bodily systems. But did you know that exercise can make you more productive? The latest research shows that a regular exercise routine can make you happier, smarter, and more energetic.
The record business is dangerous to the health of bands and individuals, which is something I'm just now learning. But it's not dangerous in any of the ways people think it's not that they try to make you compromise your art. That's not the problem.
I believe that stress is a factor in any bad health.
I am all about health... and to me, size is not what defines your health.
My father was a member of the Teamsters Union in California, where he helped to organize better health care for workers. My mother worked for more than 20 years on an assembly line.
You can never turn the clock back and, since we're talking about mental health, I would stress that.
No one has the right to threaten the health, education, and well-being of children by involving them in illegal or inappropriate work.
I'm as obsessive with health as I was with destruction.
I am not obsessive about anything except my health.
The health care industry can play a great role in this by being aware of the fact that these children form perhaps the most neglected group of people in the country, largely because it is hard to find them.
One positive command he gave us: You shall love and honor your emperor. In every congregation a prayer must be said for the czar's health, or the chief of police would close the synagogue.
To get rich never risk your health. For it is the truth that health is the wealth of wealth.
Well, there are about 10 million children that aren't covered by health insurance. About 3 million qualify for Medicaid but don't get it, so we're going to reach out and bring more of those kids into the Medicaid program.
The health care reform legislation passed by the U.S. House of Representatives last night clearly violates the U.S. Constitution and infringes on each state's sovereignty.
Now our job, our duty, our responsibility to ensure the safety and security of our citizens cannot be complete unless we guarantee health care security for our citizens.
The sexes were made for each other, and only in the wise and loving union of the two is the fullness of health and duty and happiness to be expected.
Let's face it, in America today we don't have a health care system, we have a sick care system.
The highest-income Americans don't need tax-free health insurance, mortgage interest deductions or deferred taxation on retirement funds.
I've declined every congressional benefit I could decline, federal health insurance, the retirement program, the 403(b) program, which I think is overly generous. I've got self-imposed term limits of six terms if I have the privilege to serve that long.
Increased revenues, meaning higher taxes, will be a central element of any successful long-term budget plan, and President Obama is right to insist that the wealthy - the slice of America that has come through the recession in by far the best financial health - should provide those funds.
I learned that people everywhere are basically the same and have similar goals that we do. They want health and happiness and the opportunity to provide for their families.
Yoga is at the core of my health and wellness routine even if it's only for 10 to 15 minutes I find it helps me to re-center and to focus as well as improve my overall core strength.
Smoking is the now the principal avoidable cause of premature death in Britain. It hits the worst off people hardest of all. Smoking is one of the principal causes of the health gap which leads to poorer people being ill more often and dying sooner.
It's been proven that fitting more activity into your day can greatly improve your health.
Illegal immigration is not just a matter of interest in states along our border with Mexico. It is having an effect on local economies, schools, health care delivery, and public safety all across the country.
Mr. Speaker, our Nation must no longer be complacent about underage drinking and its alarming consequences. We must bring this national public health crisis out of the shadow and into the bright light of a national priority.
Sex and beauty are inseparable, like life and consciousness. And the intelligence which goes with sex and beauty, and arises out of sex and beauty, is intuition.
Intelligence is not to make no mistakes, but quickly to see how to make them good.
To educate the intelligence is to expand the horizon of its wants and desires.
The intelligence of the creature known as a crowd, is the square root of the number of people in it.
Intelligence is quickness in seeing things as they are.
There can be no two opinions as to what a highbrow is. He is the man or woman of thoroughbred intelligence who rides his mind at a gallop across country in pursuit of an idea.
Intelligence is a moral category.
The universe is an intelligence test.
An intelligence test sometimes shows a man how smart he would have been not to have taken it.
It has always been my private conviction that any man who puts his intelligence up against a fish and loses had it coming.
Clear thinking requires courage rather than intelligence.
Skill is successfully walking a tightrope between the twin towers of New York's World Trade Center. Intelligence is not trying.
My dad is still Christian Scientist. My mom's not, and I'm not. But I believe in God, and that there's a higher power and an intelligence that's bigger than us and that we can rely on. It's not just us, thinking we are the ones in control of everything. That idea gives me support.
A government for the people must depend for its success on the intelligence, the morality, the justice, and the interest of the people themselves.
You can use all the quantitative data you can get, but you still have to distrust it and use your own intelligence and judgment.
The best intelligence test is what we do with our leisure.
The role of the intelligence - that part of us which affirms and denies and formulates opinions is merely to submit.
Whatever debases the intelligence degrades the entire human being.
Talent and intelligence never yet inoculated anyone against the caprice of the fates.
One of the indictments of civilizations is that happiness and intelligence are so rarely found in the same person.
Too many problem-solving sessions become battlegrounds where decisions are made based on power rather than intelligence.
George W. Bush attended the intelligence briefing every day. Obama has not even attended half of them. He sends surrogates. That to me is significant.
After all, it is the divinity within that makes the divinity without and I have been more fascinated by a woman of talent and intelligence, though deficient in personal charms, than I have been by the most regular beauty.
Many highly intelligent people are poor thinkers. Many people of average intelligence are skilled thinkers. The power of a car is separate from the way the car is driven.
Philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by means of language.
There are unknown forces in nature when we give ourselves wholly to her, without reserve, she lends them to us she shows us these forms, which our watching eyes do not see, which our intelligence does not understand or suspect.
Our government is founded upon the intelligence of the people. I for one do not despair of the republic. I have great confidence in the virtue of the great majority of the people, and I cannot fear the result.
I'm every bourgeois nightmare - a Cockney with intelligence and a million dollars.
For me, I was somebody who was a smart young guy who didn't do very well in school. The basic system of education, I didn't fit in my intelligence was elsewhere.
I never think of myself as wise. I think of myself as possessing a critical intelligence which I intend to allow to operate.
In view of the fact that God limited the intelligence of man, it seems unfair that He did not also limit his stupidity.
Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done.
I would like to take you seriously, but to do so would affront your intelligence.
The Clinton White House today said they would start to give national security and intelligence briefings to George Bush. I don't know how well this is working out. Today after the first one Bush said, 'I've got one question: What color is the red phone?"
Some people worry that artificial intelligence will make us feel inferior, but then, anybody in his right mind should have an inferiority complex every time he looks at a flower.
Intelligence agencies keep things secret because they often violate the rule of law or of good behavior.
When our governments want to sell us a course of action, they do it by making sure it's the only thing on the agenda, the only thing everyone's talking about. And they pre-load the ensuing discussion with highly selected images, devious and prejudicial language, dubious linkages, weak or false 'intelligence' and selected 'leaks.'
A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God.
Emotion is often what we rely upon to carry us across the unfathomable voids in our intelligence.
For the execution of the voyage to the Indies, I did not make use of intelligence, mathematics or maps.
I have met with some of them - very honest fellows, who, with all their stupidity, had a kind of intelligence and an upright good sense, which cannot be the characteristics of fools.
Human intelligence may not be the best trick nature has to offer.
Many openly show discontentment with their looks, but few with their intelligence. I, however, assure you there are many more plain minds than faces.
My dad used to say, 'Just because you dress up in a coat and tie, it doesn't influence your intelligence.'
Intelligence flourishes only in the ages when belief withers.
Poets are the sense, philosophers the intelligence of humanity.
Stupidity is infinitely more fascinating that intelligence. Intelligence has its limits while stupidity has none.
Our actions are the results of our intentions and our intelligence.
Intelligence is enormously sexy.
It's part of a writer's profession, as it's part of a spy's profession, to prey on the community to which he's attached, to take away information - often in secret - and to translate that into intelligence for his masters, whether it's his readership or his spy masters. And I think that both professions are perhaps rather lonely.
We have an incredible warrior class in this country - people in law enforcement, intelligence - and I thank God every night we have them standing fast to protect us from the tremendous amount of evil that exists in the world.
The private citizen, beset by partisan appeals for the loan of his Public Opinion, will soon see, perhaps, that these appeals are not a compliment to his intelligence, but an imposition on his good nature and an insult to his sense of evidence.
Undernourished, intelligence becomes like the bloated belly of a starving child: swollen, filled with nothing the body can use.
The Gorillaz cartoons seem more real to me than the actual people on TV. Because at least you know that there's some intelligence behind the cartoons, and there's a lot of work that's gone into it, so it can't all be just a lie.
The intelligence of few perceives what has been carefully hidden in the recesses of the mind.
Newt Gingrich has a restless and outsized intelligence that is tragically unleavened by any kind of critical sensibility.
Football is a game about feelings and intelligence.
Curiosity is free-wheeling intelligence.
That which the Fascists hate above all else, is intelligence.
All the intelligence and talent in the world can't make a singer. The voice is a wild thing. It can't be bred in captivity. It is a sport, like the silver fox. It happens.
It has yet to be proven that intelligence has any survival value.
Chess is as elaborate a waste of human intelligence as you can find outside an advertising agency.
Many intelligence reports in war are contradictory even more are false, and most are uncertain.
Advertising: the science of arresting the human intelligence long enough to get money from it.
There is no such thing as an underestimate of average intelligence.
In the clashes between ignorance and intelligence, ignorance is generally the aggressor.
Play is the only way the highest intelligence of humankind can unfold.
The trouble with people like Tony Blair is they get confused, they think intelligence is education when they're two different things.
Bill Gates wants people to think he's Edison, when he's really Rockefeller. Referring to Gates as the smartest man in America isn't right... wealth isn't the same thing as intelligence.
I'm a big advocate of financial intelligence.
Though intelligence is powerless to modify character, it is a dab hand at finding euphemisms for its weaknesses.
Successful organizations, including the Military, have learned that the higher the risk, the more necessary it is to engage everyone's commitment and intelligence.
I don't deny that there are problems in the intelligence world, but I would argue that in the UK we try to uphold the highest standards in the world.
My hope was that organizations would start including this range of skills in their training programs - in other words, offer an adult education in social and emotional intelligence.
Intelligence is quickness to apprehend as distinct form ability, which is capacity to act wisely on the thing apprehended.
It takes an extraordinary intelligence to contemplate the obvious.
Kindness and intelligence don't always deliver us from the pitfalls and traps: there are always failures of love, of will, of imagination. There is no way to take the danger out of human relationships.
God is another name for human intelligence raised above all error and imperfection, and extended to all possible truth.
I think the sexiest thing on anybody is intelligence. I respect somebody who has a brain and wants to use it more than a pretty face and status.
Intelligence must follow faith, never precede it, and never destroy it.
If you are going to have to play defense all the time, you cannot have the kind of ingenuity, assertiveness, independence, and intelligence which is what has made our country strong.
There is no logical reason why the camel of great art should pass through the needle of mob intelligence.
Sensible and responsible women do not want to vote. The relative positions to be assumed by man and woman in the working out of our civilization were assigned long ago by a higher intelligence than ours.
No man likes to have his intelligence or good faith questioned, especially if he has doubts about it himself.
It is impossible to underrate human intelligence - beginning with one's own.
We are constantly protecting the male ego, and it's a disservice to men. If a man has any sensitivity or intelligence, he wants to get the straight scoop from his girlfriend.
Quality in a classical Greek sense is how to live with grace and intelligence, with bravery and mercy.
There is little evidence that our individual intelligence has improved through recorded history.
If you have the guts to keep making mistakes, your wisdom and intelligence leap forward with huge momentum.
I really admire a woman for her intelligence, her personality. Beauty is not enough.
Foolishness is rarely a matter of lack of intelligence or even lack of information.
Wisdom and deep intelligence require an honest appreciation of mystery.
It's not just Bin Laden or just those that are involved in the counterterrorism effort. We've gotta cast the net broader than that. But I think it's a - very special tribute that we all owe to the bravery and courage of the men and women in the intelligence and military business who performed so well to finally get it done.
One of the functions of intelligence is to take account of the dangers that come from trusting solely to the intelligence.
But once you are in that field, emotional intelligence emerges as a much stronger predictor of who will be most successful, because it is how we handle ourselves in our relationships that determines how well we do once we are in a given job.
The sad thing about artificial intelligence is that it lacks artifice and therefore intelligence.
It is only when you watch the dense mass of thousands of ants, crowded together around the Hill, blackening the ground, that you begin to see the whole beast, and now you observe it thinking, planning, calculating. It is an intelligence, a kind of live computer, with crawling bits for its wits.
If I could have been a marine biologist I would have, but I didn't have that kind of intelligence. Numbers were never my strong point.
We will have to continue to improve our human intelligence system-something that was, unfortunately, lacking in the years which led up to September 11. This is going to be a continuing process of change.
Intelligence recognizes what has happened. Genius recognizes what will happen.
If a cat does something, we call it instinct if we do the same thing, for the same reason, we call it intelligence.
There'll be differences of opinion in just about every intelligence analysis that you make.
A John Updike is a once-in-a-generation phenomenon, if that generation is lucky: so comfortable in so many genres, the same lively, generous intelligence suffusing all he did.
Cynicism is the intellectual cripple's substitute for intelligence.
I don't intend to simply go away and write my plays and be a good boy. I intend to remain an independent and political intelligence in my own right.
If you look at military and intelligence positions from the 1950s, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has always been against American national interests.
Many difficulties which nature throws in our way, may be smoothed away by the exercise of intelligence.
I now bid farewell to the country of my birth - of my passions - of my death a country whose misfortunes have invoked my sympathies - whose factions I sought to quell - whose intelligence I prompted to a lofty aim - whose freedom has been my fatal dream.
There are a lot of obstacles in the way of our understanding animal intelligence - not the least being that we can't even agree whether nonhuman species are conscious. We accept that chimps and dolphins experience awareness we like to think dogs and cats do. But what about mice and newts? What about a fly? Is anything going on there at all?
I want to exude strength and intelligence.
I like shows that have some level of intelligence to them. When it's not as predictable, when you don't know what's coming at you.
The Secret Intelligence Service I knew occupied dusky suites of little rooms opposite St James's Park Tube station in London.
I find intelligence sexy. I find a sense of humor sexy. I find sensitivity sexy.
I'm a pessimist because of intelligence, but an optimist because of will.
Men create real miracles when they use their God-given courage and intelligence.
The question that will decide our destiny is not whether we shall expand into space. It is: shall we be one species or a million? A million species will not exhaust the ecological niches that are awaiting the arrival of intelligence.
Chess is the most elaborate waste of human intelligence outside of an advertising agency.
I listen to them freely and with all the respect merited by their intelligence, their character, their knowledge, reserving always my incontestable right of criticism and censure.
They say military have the so-called 'secret intelligence' - this amount of intelligence must be very secret, since I've never seen any intelligent military person, nor I have seen any sense in the bloody stupid wars.
If an animal does something, we call it instinct if we do the same thing for the same reason, we call it intelligence.
I think there's a supreme power behind the whole thing, an intelligence. Look at all of the instincts of nature, both animals and plants, the very ingenious ways they survive. If you cut yourself, you don't have to think about it.
It was my mother's idea. Her feeling was that I didn't have the intelligence to pick a trade myself.
If you wish to spare yourself and your venerable family, give heed to my advice with the ear of intelligence. If you do not, you will see what God has willed.
We know that there are unaccounted-for Scud and other ballistic missiles in Iraq. And part of the problem is that, since 1998, there has been no way to even get minimal information about those programs except through intelligence means.
So many people say that obviously my game has changed since I arrived here and I say that it's good that it changed, otherwise it would show a lack of intelligence.
But our society does not grant nontraditional forms of intelligence equal recognition, no matter how much it would help us get along or truly enrich our lives.
The ability to take pleasure in one's life is a skill and is a kind of intelligence. So intelligence is a hard thing to evaluate and it manifests itself in so many different ways. I do think the ability to know how to live a life and not be miserable is a sign of that.
Human folk are as a matter of fact eager to find intelligence in animals.
A German immersed in any civilization different from his own loses a weight equivalent in volume to the amount of intelligence he displaces.
Well look, CIA is an agency that has to collect intelligence, do operations. We have to take risks and it's important that we take risks and that we know that we have the support of the government and we have the support of the American people in what we're doing.
You know, as director of the CIA, I got an awful lot of intelligence about all the horrible things that could go on across the world.
Hamlet is an astonishing intelligence.
It is an accepted commonplace in psychology that the spiritual level of people acting as a crowd is far lower than the mean of each individual's intelligence or morality.
Elia Kazan understood my problems. He was able to bring out the very best in me. He gave me credit for my intelligence.
Most good actors have a huge intelligence about the human condition and a real open heart to different kinds of people and behavior.
Well, I think there's a distinction between sexing-up the intelligence and sexing-up the presentation of the intelligence.
The White House is giving George W. Bush intelligence briefings. You know, some of these jokes just write themselves.
When I went on to write my next book, Working With Emotional Intelligence, I wanted to make a business case that the best performers were those people strong in these skills.
Emotional intelligence begins to develop in the earliest years. All the small exchanges children have with their parents, teachers, and with each other carry emotional messages.
I apologize for being obvious, but every time I watch the curtain come down on even a halfway decent production of a Shakespeare play I feel a little sorrowful that I'll never know the man, or any man of such warm intelligence.
True intelligence requires fabulous imagination.
Instinct perfected is a faculty of using and even constructing organized instruments intelligence perfected is the faculty of making and using unorganized instruments.
God does not require you to follow His leadings on blind trust. Behold the evidence of an invisible intelligence pervading everything, even your own mind and body.
I think what he's - what he believes, and he may be correct, I don't know, that we have some intelligence information that leads us to know some things about what's going on in Iraq that we haven't revealed to others.
In Europe they call geeks 'smart people,' and frankly I think we live in a culture that doesn't value intelligence enough so I am very proud in saying that I am a geek.
The Constitution was written by 55 educated and highly intelligent men in Philadelphia in 1787, but it was written so that it could be understood by people of limited education and modest intelligence.
The higher the general average of intelligence, all things else being equal, the less the disposition to be meddlesome, critical, and overbearing.
She saw too that man has the power of exceeding himself, of becoming himself more entirely and profoundly than he is, truths which have only recently begun to be seen in Europe and seem even now too great for its common intelligence.
I think intelligence is totally subjective it's like sexiness.
The assumption is that the right kind of society is an organic being not merely analogous to an organic being, but actually a living structure with appetites and digestions, instincts and passions, intelligence and reason.
Prior to the passage of the Patriot Act, it was very difficult - often impossible - for us to share information with the Central Intelligence Agency, with NSA, with the other intelligence agencies, and likewise, for them to share information with us.
So there is a foreign intelligence purpose for every one of our FISA warrants.
In order to be successful against each of these threats, we have to have a presence overseas, work closely not only with our counterparts in the law enforcement community, but also with the intelligence community.
I have great faith in the intelligence of the American viewer and reader to put two and two together and come up with four.
An organization's intelligence is distributed to the point of being ubiquitous.
Science is the highest personification of the nation because that nation will remain the first which carries the furthest the works of thought and intelligence.
The intelligence community gets hurt through sequestration.
While the intelligence profession oftentimes demands secrecy, it is critically important that there be a full and open discourse on intelligence matters with the appropriate elected representatives of the American people.
I've always wanted to be a spy, and frankly I'm a little surprised that British intelligence has never approached me.
From the lowest animals of which we can affirm intelligence up to man this type of intellect is found.
I've never met a person who has more integrity than my husband. I respect that. There's his humor and intelligence, too, and he's really cute, all those things - but if you don't respect your partner, you'll get sick of him.
The Divine of the Lord in heaven is love, for the reason that love is receptive of all things of heaven, such as peace, intelligence, wisdom and happiness.
Human intelligence is a reflection of the intelligence that produces everything. In knowing, we are simply extending the intelligence that comes to and constitutes us. We mimic the mind of God, so to speak. Or better, we continue and extend it.
The best time to frame an answer to the letters of a friend, is the moment you receive them. Then the warmth of friendship, and the intelligence received, most forcibly cooperate.
You'll remember Dr. Rice said that several times: It was not a warning about the place and the method and the time - it was a general warning. And that points out the imperfection, if you would, of our intelligence.
All of the biggest technological inventions created by man - the airplane, the automobile, the computer - says little about his intelligence, but speaks volumes about his laziness.
The Germans certainly - the intelligence service believed that there were WMD. It turns out that we were all wrong, probably in my judgment, and that is most disturbing.
Christianity taught men that love is worth more than intelligence.
I think that animals aren't less intelligent than humans, they're just of a different intelligence. We have five million smell-sensitive cells in our nose, they have two hundred and fifty million - they can smell emotion. They can smell different types of emotion, they just have another type of intelligence.
Your personality as the prime minister feeds through to what you emphasise, and what you don't, how you'll handle a situation - whether you've got the combination of intelligence or instincts to adapt and to make good decisions.
An able, disinterested, public-spirited press, with trained intelligence to know the right and courage to do it, can preserve that public virtue without which popular government is a sham and a mockery.
Intelligence is the faculty of making artificial objects, especially tools to make tools.
We regard intelligence as man's main characteristic and we know that there is no superiority which intelligence cannot confer on us, no inferiority for which it cannot compensate.
I mean, we must act with intelligence. We must work on this framework, so that immigration becomes an asset to both nations. Believe me, what - just the Mayor Bloomberg said here in New York, that this city would be stopped, totally stopped if it were not by the immigrants working here.
It would be incredibly presumptuous and self-serving of me to believe that Facebook was the end of history. The only way it could possibly be the end of history is if it becomes some sort of artificial super intelligence that takes over the world.
It takes intelligence to make real comedy, and it takes a reality base to create all that little stuff I like to do that makes you giggle inside.
Here, again, as I conceive, gentlemen forget that this government is a republican one, resting exclusively in the intelligence and virtue of the People.
And when they encounter works of art which show that using new media can lead to new experiences and to new consciousness, and expand our senses, our perception, our intelligence, our sensibility, then they will become interested in this music.
Perhaps measuring animal intelligence by comparing it to human intelligence isn't the best litmus test.
I've always felt, in all my books, that there's a deep decency in the American people and a native intelligence - providing they have the facts, providing they have the information.
I couldn't help but to think back to my classmates at Thomas Jefferson High School in San Antonio. They had the same talent, the same brains, the same dreams as the folks we sat with at Stanford and Harvard. I realized the difference wasn't one of intelligence or drive. The difference was opportunity.
I don't want to talk about intelligence matters. I will say, however, that intelligence-community estimates should not become public in the way of this city and in the way of Congress.
The United States has done more for the war crimes tribunal than any other country in the world. We're turning over all the information we have, including intelligence information.
I'm the chairman of the intelligence committee. We don't only get formal briefings, but we collect our information from the intelligence community in a variety of ways.
Intelligence is playing a more important role in policymaker decisions than I think I've ever seen in my time in Congress or before.
Since September 11th Congress has created the Department of Homeland Security, more than doubled the homeland security budget and implemented a bipartisan overhaul of our intelligence systems.
Schools are not intended to moralize a wicked world, but to impart knowledge and develop intelligence, with only two social aims in mind: prepare to take on one's share in the world's work, and perhaps in addition, lend a hand in improving society, after schooling is done.
Man has made use of his intelligence, he invented stupidity.
These are Canadian and United States intelligence and law enforcement offices who are working in teams and who are using good intelligence and good law enforcement to really stop the criminals and terrorists before they ever get to the border.
I can tell you that the Canadian intelligence and law enforcement agencies have been providing outstanding co-operation with our intelligence and law enforcement agencies as we work together to track down terrorists here in North America and put them out of commission.
I can't see what's wrong about assuming intelligence in your audience and what's bad news about being rewarded for assuming that.
The rare person is still interested in new advances when they are adults. There is possibly a correlation with intelligence. In any case, you have to be fairly bright to keep learning and changing attitudes as you get older.
Facebook is at the forefront. It's the company that can fundamentally change the way information is being exchanged and processed. It can be the basis for artificial intelligence to develop over time.
There is huge demand for artificial intelligence technologies.
The employer class is less indispensable in the modern organization of industries because the laboring men themselves possess sufficient intelligence to organize into co-operative relation and enjoy the entire benefits of their own labor.
The right of each individual in any relation to secure to himself the full benefits of his intelligence, his capacity, his industry and skill are among the inalienable inheritances of humanity.
A great many people think that polysyllables are a sign of intelligence.
It is conceded by all that man is the very highest type of all living creatures on the earth. His intelligence is far superior to that of any other earthly being.
I absolutely don't think a sentient artificial intelligence is going to wage war against the human species.
The exact measure of the progress of civilization is the degree in which the intelligence of the common mind has prevailed over wealth and brute force.
To attempt to superimpose its views through the exercise of force, is seldom the part of intelligence it is frequently the part of ignorance.
Guantanamo allows us to secure dangerous detainees without the risk of escape, while at the same time providing us with valuable intelligence information on how best to proceed in the war against terror and prevent future attacks.
Reputation is favorable notoriety as distinguished from fame, which is permanent approval of great deeds and noble thoughts by the best intelligence of mankind.
I don't know how to depict intelligence.
Our intelligence community needs better coordination of operations and exchange of information, and that's why we need an overall director of national intelligence and a national counterterrorism center.
I strongly support the call to greatly expand our human intelligence capability to penetrate al Qaeda and gather critical intelligence to prevent terrorist attacks on our homeland.
Improving our national intelligence capabilities should remain a top priority and a continual process.
The war on terror, I believe, will be waged by effective intelligence and police work and cruise missiles.
I do not want to go into its physical reasons: the construction of the human body is different from that of carnivorous animals. But man's intelligence is such that it can be utilised to defend any-thing he does, whether right or wrong.
As Prime Minister Netanyahu and Defense Minister Barak have repeatedly said, the intelligence and security relationship between the United States and Israel at present is unprecedented. It has never been stronger.
There is a lot of strength and intelligence in Hollywood.
In the fight against terrorism, national agencies keep full control over their police forces, security and intelligence agencies and judicial authorities.
In intelligence work, there are limits to the amount of information one can share. Confidentiality is essential.
You can't get closer to the heart of national sovereignty than national security and intelligence services.
Taste is the fundamental quality which sums up all the other qualities. It is the nec plus ultra of the intelligence. Through this alone is genius the supreme health and balance of all the faculties.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to argue that laws written in the 1970s are adequate for today's intelligence challenges.
Prince Charles is an absolute Mountbatten. The real intelligence in the royal family comes through my parents to Prince Philip and the children.
Ron Howard is as good a person as you could want to work with on film. He never lost his cool. He's the most easygoing, lovely man, but he's got this enormous intelligence and a wonderful humanity.
Oprah is so bright, and her intelligence is so piercing that I don't think anyone who spends a few minutes with her isn't struck by that.
When I resigned, I put the U.S. Government on notice that I'm going to stick to policy issues, that I have no intention of going out and blowing the cover off of the intelligence operations, that those are truly sensitive and they should not be exposed.
The original PATRIOT Act greatly increased our nation's ability to share intelligence information, made better use of technology, and provided terrorism investigators tools that have long been available in cases involving illegal drugs and organized crime.
We can't gather the intelligence we need to foil future attacks, if we are blindly granting terrorists the right to remain silent. But for some reason, we've already done that - with the terrorist who tried to bring down Flight 253.
Everyone I know who used to be in the intelligence community is moving into the corporate world.
I do not - I never believed it's better to kill a terrorist than to detain him. We want to detain as many terrorists as possible so we can elicit the intelligence from them in the appropriate manner so that we can disrupt follow-on terrorist attacks.
The actions that we take on the counterterrorism front, again, are to take actions against individuals where we believe that the intelligence base is so strong and the nature of the threat is so grave and serious, as well as imminent, that we have no recourse except to take this action that may involve a lethal strike.
We are in this business, whether it be intelligence or the government, to protect freedom, democracy and liberty, not to violate that.
I will not, nor will I ever, publicly divulge sensitive intelligence sources and methods. For when that happens, our national security is endangered and lives can be lost.
As a former career intelligence professional, I have a profound appreciation for the value of intelligence. Intelligence disrupts terrorist plots and thwarts attacks. Intelligence saves lives.
Would it not be much better to have a president who deliberately lied to the people because he thought a war was essential than to have one who was so dumb as to be taken in by intelligence agencies, especially those who told him what he wanted to hear?
But some actors I have met possess an intelligence that I can only dream of. It's about character, it's about behavior. They understand things about people that I simply don't see.
When I was the director of Central Intelligence in the early '90s, I tried to get the Air Force to partner with us in building drones. And they didn't want to, because they had no pilots.
But it is equally incontrovertible that if our intelligence gathering process is seriously flawed, we had better find out and find out fast if we are to avoid another Sept. 11.
The prompt assimilation of that intelligence will be essential if we are to avoid another September 11th.
Some of the best fan mail I get are from our men and women in the military and intelligence communities. They say, 'Boy you do your homework, this is exactly how we're doing it.'
The Patriot Act removed major legal barriers that prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from talking and coordinating their work to protect the American people and our national security.
I sought Ben Affleck because I needed an everyman for this role. Ben appeals to men and women. He gives you a sense of intelligence, the notion of a guy who can think on his feet.
People's intelligence tends to be in inverse proportion to their number. People don't tend to get smarter as they get into bigger groups.
I take parenting incredibly seriously. I want to be there for my kids and help them navigate the world, and develop skills, emotional intelligence, to enjoy life, and I'm lucky to be able to do that and have two healthy, normal boys.
I also believe that it is time to begin the fundamental analysis of how we got here, what led us here and what we need to do in order to ensure that we are equipped with the best possible intelligence as we face these issues in the future.
I have had national security background, 10 years on the Intelligence Committee, the last two years as chair.
We ought to recognize that we have an offensive responsibility to take the war to the terrorists where they are. That responsibility has waned in the last year as military and intelligence resources were withdrawn from Afghanistan and Pakistan to be used in Iraq.
We need to make a greater investment in human intelligence.
During the Cold War, we gathered information by listening to the Soviets, taking pictures of the Soviets, and we allowed our human intelligence to decline.
This president has been reluctant to hold anybody accountable. No one was held accountable after September the 11th. Nobody's been held accountable after the clear flaws in intelligence leading up to the war in Iraq.
In reality, serial killers are of average intelligence.
The PATRIOT Act brought down the wall separating intelligence agencies from law enforcement and other entities charged with protecting the Nation from terrorism.
Legislation passed in the aftermath of September 11, 2001 enhanced our intelligence capabilities and strengthened our national defense, but until now our nation's immigration policies have not adapted to the needs of a post-September 11th world.
The great corporations of this country were not founded by ordinary people. They were founded by people with extraordinary intelligence, ambition, and aggressiveness.
By the 2030s, the nonbiological portion of our intelligence will predominate.
If God be God and man a creature made in image of the divine intelligence, his noblest function is the search for truth.
We have actually experienced in recent months a dramatic demonstration of an unprecedented intelligence failure, perhaps the most significant intelligence failure in the history of the United States.
I was an intelligence officer, not a policy-maker.
The E.U. has moved to combat global terrorism by instituting common European arrest and evidence warrants and creating a joint situation center to pool and analyze intelligence.
As a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, I will be participating in several hearings on the startling revelations contained in the report.
The Intelligence Committee will also examine present counterintelligence programs for the Department of Energy, the National Laboratories, and the Department of Defense.
I had been involved in U.S. intelligence in Berlin, Germany, while in the military and had worked with a contact with the Central Intelligence Agency office there.
I began even as a boy to realize how wide the world can be for a man of free intelligence.
I've always chosen my band members based on their sense of humor. It might sound stupid, but it means not only are they fun to live with on a tour bus for years, but humor implies intelligence.
George Tenet has been the director of central intelligence since 1997, time enough to have changed the Agency's culture. He has failed. He should go.
People have an image of Italians. When I go somewhere in the world, I don't care where it is, when they look at me it's not about my intelligence. It's who can I beat up.
Look, people have an image of Italians. When I go somewhere in the world, I don't care where it is, when they look at me it's not about my intelligence. It's who can I beat up.
Despite our very recent appearance on the planet, humanity combines arrogance with increasing material demands, even as we become more numerous. Our toughness is a delusion. Have we the intelligence and discipline to vigilantly guard against our tendency to grow without limit?
Louis Freeh said on national TV that actionable intelligence could have allowed us to stop the hijackings.
How can faceless bureaucrats in an intelligence agency deny brave soldiers a chance to tell the truth?
One of the great intellectual failures of the American intelligence community, and especially the counterterrorism community, is to assume if someone hasn't attacked us, it's because he can't or because we've defeated him.
I'm much better informed than Mr. Clarke ever was about the nature of the intelligence that was available again Osama bin Laden and which was consistently denigrated by himself and Mr. Tenet.
The 'Robben Island Bible' has arrived at the British Museum. It's a garish thing, its cover plastered with pink and gold Hindu images, designed to hide its contents. Within is the finest collection of words generated by human intelligence: the complete works of William Shakespeare.
Someday we'll learn the whole story of why George W. Bush brushed off that intelligence briefing of Aug. 6, 2001, 'Bin Laden Determined to Strike in U.S.' But surely a big distraction was the major speech he was readying for delivery on Aug. 9, his first prime-time address to the nation.
They have involved co-operation between the Iraqi intelligence and al-Qaeda operatives on training and combined operations regarding bomb making and chemical and biological weapons.
Terrorists continue to exploit divisions between law enforcement and the intelligence communities that limit the sharing of vital counterterrorism information.
We've done it in intelligence sharing and certain elements of security. There were parts of the department, in fact, that worked very well in Katrina, like the Coast Guard and TSA.
There is no one, who possesses intelligence and uses reflection, who does not understand that it is one Being who both created all things and governs them with the same energy by which He created them.
You mustn't underestimate an audience's intelligence.
Well, first of all, we did lots of studies where we show practical intelligence doesn't correlate with G. We have probably two dozen studies that practical intelligence better predicts job success than IQ.
In November, they transferred control of Abu Ghraib to the military intelligence command completely it was, after all, the center for interrogations for Iraq.
The day after the prison was transferred to the military intelligence command, they had an entire battalion - 1,200, 1,500 soldiers - arrive at Abu Ghraib just for force protection alone.
Military intelligence interrogators, however, their goal is to get information, to save lives, to stop the war, to find Saddam - whatever the information is going to be used for, at whatever cost.
I need to add that my work on multiple intelligences received a huge boost in 1995 when Daniel Goleman published his book on emotional intelligence. I am often confused with Dan. Initially, though Dan and I are longtime friends, this confusion irritated me.
People have taught me not to look for intelligence in rockmusic.
In our society those who are in reality superior in intelligence can be accepted by their fellows only if they pretend they are not.
I did my military service from 1989 - 92 and I was never shot at or had to fire on anybody. I was very lucky. I was more involved in intelligence and counter-intelligence.
We live less and less, and we learn more and more. Sensibility is surrendering to intelligence.
Within thirty years, we will have the technological means to create superhuman intelligence.
But every time our ability to access information and to communicate it to others is improved, in some sense we have achieved an increase over natural intelligence.
I am suggesting that we recognize that in network and interface research there is something as profound (and potential wild) as Artificial Intelligence.
If you imagine someone with 100 percent determination and 100 percent intelligence, you can discard a lot of intelligence before they stop succeeding. But if you start discarding determination, you very quickly get an ineffectual and perpetual grad student.
The intelligence failures with respect to Iraq were massive and have damaged our credibility around the world.
When a decision is made to go to war based on intelligence, it is a fateful decision. It has ramifications and impacts way beyond the current months and years.
Dr. Rice's record on Iraq gives me great concern. In her public statements she clearly overstated and exaggerated the intelligence concerning Iraq before the war in order to support the President's decision to initiate military action against Iraq.
I am committed to ensure that our intelligence community, law enforcement, medical professionals, and military have the information and funding needed to protect the American people from threats at home and abroad.
The 9/11 Commission strongly recommends that the National Intelligence Director be fully in control of the budget, from developing it to implementing it, to ensuring that the National Intelligence Director has the clout to make decisions.
The National Intelligence Director needs the authority to do the job we are asking him to do. That means power over the intelligence budget. And to be effective, to be allowed to do his or her job, they must have authority over the budget.
I mean enormous pressure was brought to bear - Valerie Amos, Lady Amos, went round Africa with people from our intelligence services trying to press them. I had to make sure that we didn't promise a misuse of aid in a way that would be illegal.
The qualities I am looking for in Miss Right are intelligence and humour.
If the presence of electricity can be made visible in any part of the circuit, I see no reason why intelligence may not be transmitted instantaneously by electricity.
The intelligence investigation under the leadership of Senator Church, which I know has helped cause this investigation by you, points out that the agencies did not disclose certain facts to us and that certain plots were going on.
My work requires acting at its most committed - it demands actors of enormous resilience, but also intelligence and wit. It doesn't work for narcissistic or selfish actors.
Policymakers have to make judgments based on the best intelligence they get.
My understanding is that what was provided was general order of battle information, not operational intelligence. I certainly have no knowledge of US participation in preparing battle and strike packages and doubt strongly that that occurred.
I can remember when I was National Security Adviser, the intelligence community told us... they put out an intelligence report saying that Iran would never back off from attacks on shipping in the Gulf if we use force.
And I argued with that intelligence estimate and I think it is a responsibility of policymakers to use their best judgment on the basis of the intelligence they've received.
We have been working hard to think about what our combined needs are going to be in the way of intelligence capabilities, not today but 15 to 20 years in the future.
Over the course of two years, we arrived at a point where we began to look at the value added by making information more easily accessible across the intelligence community, both defense and national.
One is to ensure that the war fighters and the intelligence analysts get the information that they need when they need it, in a format that's useful to them.
But by providing the background picture - the universal situational awareness that we desire - by showing the anomalies, the Space-Based Radar will change the nature of how we do our analysis and our intelligence.
I think intelligence is usually sexy until it becomes irritating. After that, you're stuck.
If they had said my writing wasn't good enough, fair enough, that's an opinion. But to say it's too complex is to insult the intelligence of the so-called young.
I've gotten to go wonderful places, meet interesting and intelligent people, and I started of course in the theatre and continue to work in the theatre where there is some intelligence involved in it.
As liberty and intelligence have increased the people have more and more revolted against the theological dogmas that contradict common sense and wound the tenderest sensibilities of the soul.
Human beings exercise responsibilities within a social setting and a framework of obligations which transcend the principle of intelligence.
But it has, in addition, an even more precious quality - a consciousness of the human intelligence, the human spirit and that man is a social creature.
Advertising must respect the intelligence of its audience and if it does not prompt them to think, it will be instantly dismissed.
We're not trying to harass the average American. We need to convert this now to a risk-based system, with TSA concentrating and focusing on intelligence, on security, setting up again the parameters of which we do this.
The mob spirit has grown with the increasing intelligence of the Afro-American.
According to Richard Clarke, the former White House counterterrorism chief, Bush was so obsessed with Iraq that he failed to take action against Osama Bin Laden despite repeated warnings from his intelligence experts.
The Queen's intelligence network is a hell of a lot better than anyone's in this palace. Bar none. She knows everything. I don't know how she does it. And she sees everything.
Mr. Speaker, we are a blessed Nation. We have not suffered another attack on our soil since September 11, and we are grateful. We have killed or captured dozens of members of al Qaeda and the Taliban. Our military and intelligence forces are working both hard and smart.
When AI approximates Machine Intelligence, then many online and computer-run RPGs will move towards actual RPG activity. Nonetheless, that will not replace the experience of 'being there,' any more than seeing a theatrical motion picture can replace the stage play.
Not all intelligence can be artificial now, so if we make a mistake, the consequences are no longer simply located within an institution or a national culture.
The fact is that a car used by Gerry Adams and myself during the course of the Mitchell review was bugged by elements within British military intelligence.
In Spain, we should have enough intelligence, enough sense of individual and collective responsibility to do for ourselves that which would be imposed upon us by a dictatorship.
The people who work in intelligence work are more conscious, more apt to be attentive.
There's a lot of neuroscience now raising the question, 'Is all the intelligence in the human body in the brain?', and they're finding out that, no, it's not like that. The body has intelligence itself, and we're much more of an organic creature in that way.
I refuse to be molded into some stereotypical ballplayer that has no interests, really, no life, no depth, no intelligence.
So that, to me, is important that audiences are treated with an amount of respect toward their intelligence. Most Hollywood films don't respect their intelligence.
Intelligence is our first line of defense against terrorism, and we must improve the collection capabilities and analysis of intelligence to protect the security of the United States and its allies.
The security of the United States, which is so dependent on having accurate and timely intelligence, is not a Republican or a Democratic issue.
Since 2001, the Patriot Act has provided the means to detect and disrupt terrorist threats against the U.S. Prior to enactment of the law, major legal barriers prevented intelligence, national defense, and law enforcement agencies from working together and sharing information.
The intelligence of the lower forms of animal life, like a great deal of human intelligence, does not involve a self.
Without consciousness and intelligence, the universe would lack meaning.
The heartbeat of a football team is the quarterback position and I think everyone who has any intelligence about the game understands you must have consistency at that position to be a championship team.
If you look back today over the last 25 years, it is a fact that we have had a progressive degeneration of our intelligence community in general in particular in the field of human intelligence.
We have three centers: the emotional center, the intellectual center, and the physical body center. Each one of them has its own intelligence. How much better would we be if all three were working in unison?
The negative cost of Lewis and Clark entering the Garden of Eden is that later expeditions regardless of what they were intended to do, later expeditions did not deal with the native peoples with the intelligence with the almost kindly resolve that Lewis and Clark did.
Women have talent and intelligence but, due to social constraints and prejudices, it is still a long distance away from the goal of gender equality.
Well, our position, and our chairman has talked about this extensively, is that we had a lot of intelligence prior to 9/11. We knew that two al Qaeda operatives who ultimately participated in the 9/11 disaster were in the United States. We didn't find them.
Dissents are appeals to the brooding spirit of the law, to the intelligence of another day.
I feel as though my career really hit its high point when I was cast as a supporting actress in 'American Wedding'. I thought the script had a lot of depth and intelligence, and it really just jumped off the page.
Judy, we think that since the 11th of September, 2001, we've faced a similar heightened threat level. And we've been enhancing both the exchange of intelligence and security information and the assessment of that information, because that's the crucial element.
Art owes its origin to Nature herself... this beautiful creation, the world, supplied the first model, while the original teacher was that divine intelligence which has not only made us superior to the other animals, but like God Himself, if I may venture to say it.
The key to artificial intelligence has always been the representation.
Prediction is not just one of the things your brain does. It is the primary function of the neo-cortex, and the foundation of intelligence.
Job plunges into a series of demands on and accusations of God which may be and indeed are epigrams of high intelligence, but are not noticeably patient.
The hypothesis of surviving intelligence and personality - not only surviving but anxious and able with difficulty to communicate - is the simplest and most straightforward and the only one that fits all the facts.
In other cases, when the medium becomes entranced, the demonstration of a communicator's separate intelligence may become stronger and the sophistication less.
It becomes a giant's task to compute the result when the effect of cross seas, wind at all angles and ever varying force, arched surfaces, head resistance, ratio of weight to area, and the intelligence of the guiding power crop up.
Well, it's a - I don't want to disappoint you, but it's a time worn tradition of Australian Governments over many years not to get into any discussion about that aspect of intelligence matters.
Rehearsals and this band are two words that don't really go together, kinda like Military Intelligence.
The beautiful thing about my intelligence is that it doesn't really come in one specific department. So even if something hasn't happened to me, I have information on how to get you through whatever you may be going through.
I think Madonna has a great deal of intelligence and capability. I have a lot of respect for her. She's taken her career and maximized it with intelligence and creativity.
I feel audiences are not given enough credit for their intelligence.
The only people that ever stand up and tell the truth are who? Intelligence officers. Because our culture is, never break faith with the truth. We'll tell you, you don't have to drag it out of us.
Here's the teaching point, if you're teaching kids about intelligence and policy: Intelligence does not absolve policymakers of responsibility to ask tough questions, and it doesn't absolve them of having curiosity about the consequences of their actions.
As a nation we have, over the past seven years, been rebuilding our intelligence with powerful capabilities that many thought we would no longer need after the Cold War. We have been rebuilding our clandestine service, our satellite and other technical collection, our analytical depth and expertise.
To understand a difficult topic like Iraq takes patience and care. Unfortunately, you rarely hear a patient, careful or thoughtful discussion of intelligence these days.
By definition, intelligence deals with the unclear, the unknown, the deliberately hidden. What the enemies of the United States hope to deny we work to reveal.
When I came to the CIA in the mid-'90s, our graduating class of case officers was unbelievably low. Now, after years of rebuilding, our training programs and putting our best efforts to recruit the most talented men and women, we are graduating more clandestine officers than at any time in the history of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Lincoln's stature and strength, his intelligence and ambition - in short, all the elements which gave him popularity among men in New Salem, rendered him equally attractive to the fair sex of that village.
The intelligence community, for the most part, has no accountability at all to the Congress, to us the American people, and so they feel that they above the law.
I want to improve TSA's counterterrorism focus through intelligence and cutting edge technology, support the TSA workforce, and strengthen the agency's relationships with stakeholders and the traveling public. All of these priorities are interconnected and are vital to TSA's mission - and I would say, all of our collective mission.
The reason we are doing these types of pat downs and using the advanced imagery technology is trying to take the latest intelligence and how we know al Qaeda and affiliates want to hurt us, they want to bring down whether it is passenger air craft or cargo aircraft.
So, you know, I think that Democrats are being more successful in Congress and I'm really going to be proud of the role I will play tomorrow as ranking Democrat on the Intelligence Committee when this bill passes.
A lot of the things that we've been able to do in the last several years were Democratic ideas, including the structure for this new director of national intelligence.
The Committee's review of a series of intelligence shortcomings, to include intelligence prior to 9/11 and the pre-war intelligence on Iraq, clearly reveal how vital a diverse intelligence workforce is to our national security.
We can no longer expect an Intelligence Community that is mostly male and mostly white to be able to monitor and infiltrate suspicious organizations or terrorist groups.
I can't be a man. But I can embrace the head of a man, the intelligence of a man, the spirit of a man.
The accidental causes of science are only accidents relatively to the intelligence of a man.
Artificial Intelligence leaves no doubt that it wants its audiences to enter a realm of pure fantasy when it identifies one of the last remaining islands of civilization as New Jersey.
Could it be that all those reports coming from our own intelligence that Bush ignored was right all along? Could it be that the UN was right all along?
I certainly believe that improving our intelligence is of important national interest.
Making use of human weaknesses in intelligence work is a logical matter. It keeps coming up, and of course you try to look at all the aspects that interest you in a human being.
I feel that I, and the people under my command, tried to use all the traditional methods of recruiting agents which were also used by other intelligence services adopting also means like pressure, money, sex - but that did not characterize my service.
I'm inspired by the sheer ingenuity and intelligence possessed by my fellow band mates.
If you look at the publishers I've worked with, generally, they're a great bunch. Creation is unlike any other publishing house you can think of. The people I've worked with have integrity and intelligence and, almost always, less money than ideas.
The terrorist uses surprise and stealth, and the only way to defeat that is by having accurate and timely intelligence.
Collecting intelligence information is like trying to drink water out of a fire hydrant. You know, in hindsight It's great. The problem is there's a million dots at the time.
And I understand that, I testified in closed hearings over eight years because there are intelligence matters, there are sensitive matters that should not be held in a public hearing.
I am sure that in Canada the people appreciate this principle, and the general intelligence which prevails over that country is such that I am sure there is no danger of a reactionary policy ever finding a response in the hearts of any considerable number of our people.
We worked to develop our own operations to advance U.S. counterterrorism objectives by penetrating terrorist safe havens and collecting intelligence that would inform policy and enable our own operations.
The plan we developed to deal with al Qaeda depended on developing sources of human and technical intelligence that could give us insights into his plans at the tactical level. This is easy to say but hard to accomplish.
Affairs of state tend to drive most presidents toward the center on both foreign and domestic policy, no matter where on the political spectrum they begin, and especially so in the areas of intelligence and law enforcement.
First, I have the privilege of being Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. It is not an oxymoron I assure you.
That U.N. Security Council resolution requires getting Syrian troops and intelligence officials out of Lebanon so that the Lebanese can have elections here this spring that are free and fair and free of outside influence.
But the same intelligence compels Germany to practise the same policy.
Intelligence we gathered at the time indicated that this was in fact leadership and we struck the leadership.
You want to keep intelligence separate from policy.
Another factor is the decision, made in 1976, to sharply divide the FBI and the foreign intelligence agencies. The FBI would collect within the United States the foreign intelligence agencies would collect overseas.
The standard rumor at the time was that Rumsfeld, as chief of staff, had persuaded President Ford to appoint George H.W. Bush as director of Central Intelligence, assuming that that got rid of a potential competitor for the presidency.
I never threatened him and no Syrian intelligence officer has ever pointed a gun to his head.
Imagination is but another name for super intelligence.
I believe that reforming our intelligence community is one of the most important things that we can do in order to ensure that our country is in fact safer, stronger and wiser.
The Homeland Security department doesn't have tasking authority in the intelligence community. They can ask for stuff, but they can't direct anything except inside their bureau.
Our men and women in uniform deserve the best intelligence possible to help them protect America.
I think we need to ask serious questions about how we engage militarily, when we engage militarily, and on what basis we engage militarily. What kind of intelligence do we have to justify a military engagement?
Pat Roberts and I both feel very strongly that when we get to Iran, that we can't make the same mistakes. We have to ask the questions, the hard questions before, not afterwards, and get the right intelligence.
I rise today to discuss the National Intelligence Reform bill. I commend my colleagues in both Houses for their hard work in coming to an agreement. As with any conference, each voice is heard, but none can dominate and compromise must be achieved.
I do have concerns about the current efforts to restructure our nation's intelligence community.
I am not opposed to intelligence reform on its face, but any changes should reflect the current context.
It is not government's job to mandate responsibility on our behalf. We have the intelligence and good sense to make wise consumption choices for ourselves and our children. It is up to us to do what is best for our health and our children's health.
The war we are fighting today against terrorism is a multifaceted fight. We have to use every tool in our toolkit to wage this war - diplomacy, finance, intelligence, law enforcement, and of course, military power - and we are developing new tools as we go along.
People don't want to believe that technology is broken. Pharmaceuticals, robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology - all these areas where the progress has been a lot more limited than people think. And the question is why.
We now witness the constructive work on a foundation that will endure through the ages. That foundation is the god of science - revealed to us in terms that will harmonize with our intelligence.
As a former attorney general. I have the greatest respect for the criminal justice system. But it is not good at intelligence gathering.
For four years, I listened to stories of intelligence failures, and it wasn't due to incompetence of anyone in the system, but that the system is so arcane.
It's the continuation of everyone's childhood to see these young children who grow up full of life, full of intelligence, full of a sense of wonder. And within an instant they're gone from this world. It's terrible.
For 13 to be unlucky would require there to be some kind of cosmic intelligence that counts things that humans count and that also makes certain things happen on certain dates or in certain places according to whether the number 13 'is involved' or not (whatever 'is involved' might mean).
Instinct is intelligence incapable of self-consciousness.
Since the tragedies, the Department of Homeland Security was established to prevent terrorist attacks within the United States, and most importantly, to share intelligence information among government agencies and departments.
I think anybody with any intelligence sits down and sees Star Trek not a kids' show.
Although I do use some of my psychology training in comedy, but it's more like pop psychology, not a course of treatment or anything. To me, it's more like social intelligence.
Almost all Iraqis with any previous experience in the intelligence business are Sunni Arab, increasing the risk of penetration of the new intelligence apparatus by the insurgency.
It doesn't matter that Bush scares the hell out of me. What matters is that he scares the hell out of a lot of very important people in Washington who can't speak out, in the military, in the intelligence community.
Americans have always had an ambivalent attitude toward intelligence. When they feel threatened, they want a lot of it, and when they don't, they regard the whole thing as somewhat immoral.
Millions of dollars' worth of advertising shows such little respect for the reader's intelligence that it amounts almost to outright insult.
The skills of the British intelligence community are a great national asset.
Of course I believe in aliens. I think it's very egocentric to think that there's nothing else with intelligence in the whole universe.
Every major player is working on this technology of artificial intelligence. As of now, it's benign... but I would say that the day is not far off when artificial intelligence as applied to cyber warfare becomes a threat to everybody.
The object of pure physics is the unfolding of the laws of the intelligible world the object of pure mathematics that of unfolding the laws of human intelligence.
I'm fascinated by the journey that an intelligent and an ambitious woman makes in the professional world in contrast to the journey that a man of similar ambition, of similar intelligence makes. What sort of concessions does a woman have to make? Does she have to work 20 percent harder than a man?
Week after week, the heads of Red Army Intelligence received updates on the Wehrmacht's preparations.
Yes we have a specific procedure which we follow in all cases where the Agency is in contact, for the purposes of acquiring intelligence or whatever the case may be, with an individual.
This also turned out to be negative, so there is no material in the Central Intelligence Agency, either in the records or in the mind of any of the individuals, that there was any contact had or even contemplated with him.
The danger of having the military take over intelligence is that the military has a very different perspective on the world.
Teaching man his relatively small sphere in the creation, it also encourages him by its lessons of the unity of Nature and shows him that his power of comprehension allies him with the great intelligence over-reaching all.
Nothing has caused the human race so much trouble as intelligence.
The Bush administration also was not straightforward about the intelligence it had, releasing tenuous information that fit its goal of attacking Iraq. I feel deceived.
Music is an art that expresses the inexpressible. It rises far above what words can mean or the intelligence define. Its domain is the imponderable and impalpable land of the unconscious.
Sometimes, surely, truth is closer to imagination or to intelligence, to love than to fact? To be accurate is not to be right.
It is not difficult for me to have this faith, for it is incontrovertible that where there is a plan there is intelligence - an orderly, unfolding universe testifies to the truth of the most majestic statement ever uttered - 'In the beginning, God.'
Intelligence is nothing without delight.
I think America has more than enough maturity and intelligence to start exercising its world leadership responsibly.
There are whole precincts of voters in this country whose united intelligence does not equal that of one representative American woman.
God gives us intelligence to uncover the wonders of nature. Without the gift, nothing is possible.
Truth knows no color it appeals to intelligence.
I believe Business Objects is on the cusp of becoming a multi-billion-dollar sales company. There is tremendous growth potential for business intelligence.
To lack intelligence is to be in the ring blindfolded.
I am not a member of the CIA or any other intelligence agency.
I found that our Soviet espionage efforts had virtually never, or had very seldom, produced any worthwhile political or economic intelligence on the Soviet Union.
In my professional work with the Agency, by the late '70s, I had come to question the value of a great deal of what we were doing, in terms of the intelligence agency's impact on American policy.
Our Soviet espionage efforts had virtually never, or had very seldom, produced any worthwhile political or economic intelligence on the Soviet Union.
There are so many things a large intelligence espionage organization can do to justify its existence, that people can get promotions for, because it could result in results.
The resistance of policy-makers to intelligence is not just founded on an ideological presupposition. They distrust intelligence sources and intelligence officials because they don't understand what the real problems are.
We had periodic crises in this country when the technical intelligence didn't support the policy. We had the bomber gap, the missile gap.
Foreign Ministry guys don't become agents. Party officials, the Foreign Ministry nerds, tend not to volunteer to Western intelligence agencies.
I wasn't privy to all of the intelligence that was coming in about Guatemala, but I did see the traffic that was coming in from Guatemala City, because it was very relevant to me, and of course I exchanged what I had with the chief of station in Guatemala City.
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.
Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school.
We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
Learn to enjoy every minute of your life. Be happy now. Don't wait for something outside of yourself to make you happy in the future. Think how really precious is the time you have to spend, whether it's at work or with your family. Every minute should be enjoyed and savored.
If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?
A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both hands you need to be able to throw something back.
Tell me and I forget. Teach me and I remember. Involve me and I learn.
I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig. You get dirty, and besides, the pig likes it.
The secret of success is learning how to use pain and pleasure instead of having pain and pleasure use you. If you do that, you're in control of your life. If you don't, life controls you.
Every immigrant who comes here should be required within five years to learn English or leave the country.
He who learns but does not think, is lost! He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.
I am always ready to learn although I do not always like being taught.
There is no end to education. It is not that you read a book, pass an examination, and finish with education. The whole of life, from the moment you are born to the moment you die, is a process of learning.
He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to stand and walk and run and climb and dance one cannot fly into flying.
Without pain, there would be no suffering, without suffering we would never learn from our mistakes. To make it right, pain and suffering is the key to all windows, without it, there is no way of life.
Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other.
Life is a series of experiences, each one of which makes us bigger, even though sometimes it is hard to realize this. For the world was built to develop character, and we must learn that the setbacks and grieves which we endure help us in our marching onward.
One of the things I learned the hard way was that it doesn't pay to get discouraged. Keeping busy and making optimism a way of life can restore your faith in yourself.
Being ignorant is not so much a shame, as being unwilling to learn.
Learn to get in touch with the silence within yourself, and know that everything in life has purpose. There are no mistakes, no coincidences, all events are blessings given to us to learn from.
If history repeats itself, and the unexpected always happens, how incapable must Man be of learning from experience.
To know oneself is to study oneself in action with another person.
Try to learn something about everything and everything about something.
I like to listen. I have learned a great deal from listening carefully. Most people never listen.
Flying is learning how to throw yourself at the ground and miss.
The person you consider ignorant and insignificant is the one who came from God, that he might learn bliss from grief and knowledge from gloom.
I am a woman in process. I'm just trying like everybody else. I try to take every conflict, every experience, and learn from it. Life is never dull.
He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.
You cannot open a book without learning something.
Everything I learned I learned from the movies.
I have learned, that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
I am not afraid of storms for I am learning how to sail my ship.
Once you learn to quit, it becomes a habit.
It is of practical value to learn to like yourself. Since you must spend so much time with yourself you might as well get some satisfaction out of the relationship.
In times of change learners inherit the earth while the learned find themselves beautifully equipped to deal with a world that no longer exists.
Deficiency motivation doesn't work. It will lead to a life-long pursuit of try to fix me. Learn to appreciate what you have and where and who you are.
Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.
A man only learns in two ways, one by reading, and the other by association with smarter people.
It is paradoxical that many educators and parents still differentiate between a time for learning and a time for play without seeing the vital connection between them.
The truth is that we can learn to condition our minds, bodies, and emotions to link pain or pleasure to whatever we choose. By changing what we link pain and pleasure to, we will instantly change our behaviors.
Have you learned the lessons only of those who admired you, and were tender with you, and stood aside for you? Have you not learned great lessons from those who braced themselves against you, and disputed passage with you?
The things that have been most valuable to me I did not learn in school.
There are no mistakes. The events we bring upon ourselves, no matter how unpleasant, are necessary in order to learn what we need to learn whatever steps we take, they're necessary to reach the places we've chosen to go.
It's what you learn after you know it all that counts.
We learned about honesty and integrity - that the truth matters... that you don't take shortcuts or play by your own set of rules... and success doesn't count unless you earn it fair and square.
I am always doing that which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it.
God lets everything happen for a reason. It's all a learning process, and you have to go from one level to another.
The ultimate lesson all of us have to learn is unconditional love, which includes not only others but ourselves as well.
Your mind will answer most questions if you learn to relax and wait for the answer.
Losers live in the past. Winners learn from the past and enjoy working in the present toward the future.
Prepare for the unknown by studying how others in the past have coped with the unforeseeable and the unpredictable.
The life ahead can only be glorious if you learn to live in total harmony with the Lord.
It is utterly false and cruelly arbitrary to put all the play and learning into childhood, all the work into middle age, and all the regrets into old age.
I never learned from a man who agreed with me.
Personally, I would be delighted if there were a life after death, especially if it permitted me to continue to learn about this world and others, if it gave me a chance to discover how history turns out.
I learned the value of hard work by working hard.
In the long history of humankind (and animal kind, too) those who learned to collaborate and improvise most effectively have prevailed.
We are the creative force of our life, and through our own decisions rather than our conditions, if we carefully learn to do certain things, we can accomplish those goals.
If you use your mind to study reality, you won't understand either your mind or reality. If you study reality without using your mind, you'll understand both.
It is what we know already that often prevents us from learning.
I try to learn from the past, but I plan for the future by focusing exclusively on the present. That's were the fun is.
We should regret our mistakes and learn from them, but never carry them forward into the future with us.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is better than ten years mere study of books.
I'd rather learn from one bird how to sing than to teach ten thousand stars how not to dance.
You teach best what you most need to learn.
I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.
I'm most proud of the blessings that God has bestowed upon me, in my life. He's given me the vision to truly see that you can fall down, but you can still get back up. Hopefully I'll learn from my mistakes and have the opportunity to strengthen and improve the next thing I do.
Because in the school of the Spirit man learns wisdom through humility, knowledge by forgetting, how to speak by silence, how to live by dying.
What we face may look insurmountable. But I learned something from all those years of training and competing. I learned something from all those sets and reps when I didn't think I could lift another ounce of weight. What I learned is that we are always stronger than we know.
You make mistakes, but I don't have any regrets. I'm the kind of person who takes responsibility for it and deals with it. I learn from everything I do. I work very hard, I have so many things going on in my life. Get to know me and see who I am.
The hardest job kids face today is learning good manners without seeing any.
Surround yourself with good people. Whether they're the best or not, people are capable of learning if they've got good hearts and they're good souls.
Learning never exhausts the mind.
I don't think human beings learn anything without desperation. Desperation is a necessary ingredient to learning anything or creating anything. Period. If you ain't desperate at some point, you ain't interesting.
We now accept the fact that learning is a lifelong process of keeping abreast of change. And the most pressing task is to teach people how to learn.
A little learning is a dangerous thing Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.
To make no mistakes is not in the power of man but from their errors and mistakes the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
You don't learn to walk by following rules. You learn by doing, and by falling over.
If I were given the opportunity to present a gift to the next generation, it would be the ability for each individual to learn to laugh at himself.
I am still learning.
Study strategy over the years and achieve the spirit of the warrior. Today is victory over yourself of yesterday tomorrow is your victory over lesser men.
Study nature, love nature, stay close to nature. It will never fail you.
In youth we learn in age we understand.
I don't love studying. I hate studying. I like learning. Learning is beautiful.
We learn by practice. Whether it means to learn to dance by practicing dancing or to learn to live by practicing living, the principles are the same. One becomes in some area an athlete of God.
Question everything. Learn something. Answer nothing.
An unschooled man who knows how to meditate upon the Lord has learned far more than the man with the highest education who does not know how to meditate.
A tough lesson in life that one has to learn is that not everybody wishes you well.
And we are never too old to study the Bible. Each time the lessons are studied comes some new meaning, some new thought which will make us better.
I never learn anything talking. I only learn things when I ask questions.
People always ask me, 'What is it that you regret?' And I say, 'nothing, because I could not buy what I've learned.' And I apply those things to my life I learn. And hopefully, hopefully it helps me to be a better human in the future and make better choices.
The minute that you're not learning I believe you're dead.
Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young.
The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education.
There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.
Learning to trust is one of life's most difficult tasks.
Learning is the beginning of wealth. Learning is the beginning of health. Learning is the beginning of spirituality. Searching and learning is where the miracle process all begins.
Leave all the afternoon for exercise and recreation, which are as necessary as reading. I will rather say more necessary because health is worth more than learning.
Develop a passion for learning. If you do, you will never cease to grow.
Like success, failure is many things to many people. With Positive Mental Attitude, failure is a learning experience, a rung on the ladder, a plateau at which to get your thoughts in order and prepare to try again.
Everybody who is incapable of learning has taken to teaching.
While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning how to die.
Learning without thought is labor lost thought without learning is perilous.
No man ever prayed heartily without learning something.
I made decisions that I regret, and I took them as learning experiences... I'm human, not perfect, like anybody else.
A lot of the problems I had with fame I was bringing on myself. A lot of self-loathing, a lot of woe-is-me. Now I'm learning to see the positive side of things, instead of, like, 'I can't go to Kmart. I can't take my kids to the haunted house.'
Success is the result of perfection, hard work, learning from failure, loyalty, and persistence.
It is only when we forget all our learning that we begin to know.
A little learning is a dangerous thing, but we must take that risk because a little is as much as our biggest heads can hold.
Don't limit a child to your own learning, for he was born in another time.
Instead of giving money to found colleges to promote learning, why don't they pass a constitutional amendment prohibiting anybody from learning anything? If it works as good as the Prohibition one did, why, in five years we would have the smartest race of people on earth.
Men have a respect for scholarship and learning greatly out of proportion to the use they commonly serve.
Entire ignorance is not so terrible or extreme an evil, and is far from being the greatest of all too much cleverness and too much learning, accompanied with ill bringing-up, are far more fatal.
The learning and knowledge that we have, is, at the most, but little compared with that of which we are ignorant.
Change is the end result of all true learning.
The only real progress lies in learning to be wrong all alone.
Never make your home in a place. Make a home for yourself inside your own head. You'll find what you need to furnish it - memory, friends you can trust, love of learning, and other such things. That way it will go with you wherever you journey.
Each year has been so robust with problems and successes and learning experiences and human experienes that a year is a lifetime at Apple. So this has been ten lifetimes.
Why don't they pass a constitutional amendment prohibiting anybody from learning anything? If it works as well as prohibition did, in five years Americans would be the smartest race of people on Earth.
A good teacher can inspire hope, ignite the imagination, and instill a love of learning.
Ignorance of all things is an evil neither terrible nor excessive, nor yet the greatest of all but great cleverness and much learning, if they be accompanied by a bad training, are a much greater misfortune.
We do not learn and what we call learning is only a process of recollection.
When man learns to understand and control his own behavior as well as he is learning to understand and control the behavior of crop plants and domestic animals, he may be justified in believing that he has become civilized.
I would fain grow old learning many things.
Wisdom is learning what to overlook.
The knack of flying is learning how to throw yourself at the ground and miss.
If I am through learning, I am through.
These things will destroy the human race: politics without principle, progress without compassion, wealth without work, learning without silence, religion without fearlessness and worship without awareness.
Defense is a definite part of the game, and a great part of defense is learning to play it without fouling.
There's always failure. And there's always disappointment. And there's always loss. But the secret is learning from the loss, and realizing that none of those holes are vacuums.
Winning is great, sure, but if you are really going to do something in life, the secret is learning how to lose. Nobody goes undefeated all the time. If you can pick up after a crushing defeat, and go on to win again, you are going to be a champion someday.
As long as you live, keep learning how to live.
Some of the companies we helped start are names you know. An office supply company called Staples - where I'm pleased to see the Obama campaign has been shopping The Sports Authority, which became a favorite of my sons. We started an early childhood learning center called Bright Horizons that First Lady Michelle Obama rightly praised.
Not to unlearn what you have learned is the most necessary kind of learning.
Play is often talked about as if it were a relief from serious learning. But for children play is serious learning. Play is really the work of childhood.
An organization's ability to learn, and translate that learning into action rapidly, is the ultimate competitive advantage.
I'm not afraid of storms, for I'm learning to sail my ship.
A weed is a plant that has mastered every survival skill except for learning how to grow in rows.
The love of learning, the sequestered nooks, And all the sweet serenity of books.
The books that help you most are those which make you think that most. The hardest way of learning is that of easy reading but a great book that comes from a great thinker is a ship of thought, deep freighted with truth and beauty.
Learning is finding out what you already know.
Life is like playing a violin solo in public and learning the instrument as one goes on.
Suppose that we are wise enough to learn and know - and yet not wise enough to control our learning and knowledge, so that we use it to destroy ourselves? Even if that is so, knowledge remains better than ignorance.
Education is learning what you didn't even know you didn't know.
Every act of conscious learning requires the willingness to suffer an injury to one's self-esteem. That is why young children, before they are aware of their own self-importance, learn so easily.
Painful as it may be, a significant emotional event can be the catalyst for choosing a direction that serves us - and those around us - more effectively. Look for the learning.
A little learning, indeed, may be a dangerous thing, but the want of learning is a calamity to any people.
Learning is not attained by chance, it must be sought for with ardor and diligence.
Start with God - the first step in learning is bowing down to God only fools thumb their noses at such wisdom and learning.
Take those chances and you can achieve greatness, whereas if you go conservative, you'll never know. I truly believe what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Even if you fail, learning and moving on is sometimes the best thing.
I like to think of my behavior in the sixties as a 'learning experience.' Then again, I like to think of anything stupid I've done as a 'learning experience.' It makes me feel less stupid.
Learning, n. The kind of ignorance distinguishing the studious.
Seeing much, suffering much, and studying much, are the three pillars of learning.
Learning and innovation go hand in hand. The arrogance of success is to think that what you did yesterday will be sufficient for tomorrow.
Desperation is a necessary ingredient to learning anything, or creating anything. Period. If you ain't desperate at some point, you ain't interesting.
Never become so much of an expert that you stop gaining expertise. View life as a continuous learning experience.
The great awareness comes slowly, piece by piece. The path of spiritual growth is a path of lifelong learning. The experience of spiritual power is basically a joyful one.
The least of the work of learning is done in the classroom.
A University should be a place of light, of liberty, and of learning.
Learning too soon our limitations, we never learn our powers.
People usually think according to their inclinations, speak according to their learning and ingrained opinions, but generally act according to custom.
Learning how to be still, to really be still and let life happen - that stillness becomes a radiance.
The only things worth learning are the things you learn after you know it all.
There are three ingredients in the good life: learning, earning and yearning.
People need to be made more aware of the need to work at learning how to live because life is so quick and sometimes it goes away too quickly.
Everyone can relate to love, hurt, pain, learning how to forgive, needing to get over, needing the power of God in their life.
Libraries allow children to ask questions about the world and find the answers. And the wonderful thing is that once a child learns to use a library, the doors to learning are always open.
Whoso neglects learning in his youth, loses the past and is dead for the future.
I thank my God for graciously granting me the opportunity of learning that death is the key which unlocks the door to our true happiness.
Education is not the piling on of learning, information, data, facts, skills, or abilities - that's training or instruction - but is rather making visible what is hidden as a seed.
For a man to attain to an eminent degree in learning costs him time, watching, hunger, nakedness, dizziness in the head, weakness in the stomach, and other inconveniences.
I continuously go further and further learning about my own limitations, my body limitation, psychological limitations. It's a way of life for me.
The truth of our faith becomes a matter of ridicule among the infidels if any Catholic, not gifted with the necessary scientific learning, presents as dogma what scientific scrutiny shows to be false.
The fundament upon which all our knowledge and learning rests is the inexplicable.
Patriotism, when it wants to make itself felt in the domain of learning, is a dirty fellow who should be thrown out of doors.
Much learning does not teach understanding.
Learning is a result of listening, which in turn leads to even better listening and attentiveness to the other person. In other words, to learn from the child, we must have empathy, and empathy grows as we learn.
Failure is a great teacher, and I think when you make mistakes and you recover from them and you treat them as valuable learning experiences, then you've got something to share.
It does not require great learning to be a Christian and be convinced of the truth of the Bible. It requires only an honest heart and a willingness to obey God.
Learning sleeps and snores in libraries, but wisdom is everywhere, wide awake, on tiptoe.
Men of polite learning and a liberal education.
I saw as a teacher how, if you take that spark of learning that those children have, and you ignite it, you can take a child from any background to a lifetime of creativity and accomplishment.
Even from their infancy we frame them to the sports of love: their instruction, behavior, attire, grace, learning and all their words azimuth only at love, respects only affection. Their nurses and their keepers imprint no other thing in them.
Learning hath gained most by those books by which the printers have lost.
One of the reasons people stop learning is that they become less and less willing to risk failure.
One of the greatest and simplest tools for learning more and growing is doing more.
The thing about being autistic is that you gradually get less and less autistic, because you keep learning, you keep learning how to behave. It's like being in a play I'm always in a play.
If we wish to know the force of human genius, we should read Shakespeare. If we wish to see the insignificance of human learning, we may study his commentators.
Words are but wind and learning is nothing but words ergo, learning is nothing but wind.
So in my freshman year at the University of Alabama, learning the literature on evolution, what was known about it biologically, just gradually transformed me by taking me out of literalism and increasingly into a more secular, scientific view of the world.
It is not knowledge, but the act of learning, not possession but the act of getting there, which grants the greatest enjoyment.
I'd like to be more patient! I just want everything now. I've tried to meditate, but it's really hard for me to stay still. I'd like to try to force myself to do it, because everybody says how wonderful meditation is for you, but I can't shut my mind up. So patience and learning is the key.
We have domesticated God's transcendence. We often learn about God at about the same time as we are learning about Santa Claus but our ideas about Santa Claus change, mature and become more nuanced, whereas our ideas of God can remain at a rather infantile level.
Neither comprehension nor learning can take place in an atmosphere of anxiety.
Curiosity is the wick in the candle of learning.
But if somebody dies, if something happens to you, there is a normal process of depression, it is part of being human, and some people view it as a learning experience etc.
I'm not afraid of storms, for I'm learning how to sail my ship.
The highest activity a human being can attain is learning for understanding, because to understand is to be free.
I am learning all the time. The tombstone will be my diploma.
When you stop learning, stop listening, stop looking and asking questions, always new questions, then it is time to die.
What spectacle can be more edifying or more seasonable, than that of Liberty and Learning, each leaning on the other for their mutual and surest support?
I did stand-up comedy for 18 years. Ten of those years were spent learning, four years were spent refining, and four years were spent in wild success. I was seeking comic originality, and fame fell on me as a byproduct. The course was more plodding than heroic.
You aren't learning anything when you're talking.
Irregularity and want of method are only supportable in men of great learning or genius, who are often too full to be exact, and therefore they choose to throw down their pearls in heaps before the reader, rather than be at the pains of stringing them.
While the laughter of joy is in full harmony with our deeper life, the laughter of amusement should be kept apart from it. The danger is too great of thus learning to look at solemn things in a spirit of mockery, and to seek in them opportunities for exercising wit.
Learning is its own exceeding great reward.
The beautiful thing about learning is nobody can take it away from you.
Only by learning to live in harmony with your contradictions can you keep it all afloat.
Poverty must not be a bar to learning and learning must offer an escape from poverty.
He who has imagination without learning has wings but no feet.
A happy life is one spent in learning, earning, and yearning.
I'm learning the power of going away for the weekend and keeping myself company.
We come to love not by finding a perfect person but by learning to see an imperfect person perfectly.
I had a lot of trouble with engineers, because their whole background is learning from a functional point of view, and then learning how to perform that function.
One who has imagination without learning has wings without feet.
Learning how to operate a soul figures to take time.
If you're going to go through hell... I suggest you come back learning something.
Never seem wiser, nor more learned, than the people you are with. Wear your learning, like your watch, in a private pocket: and do not merely pull it out and strike it merely to show that you have one.
Wisdom has never made a bigot, but learning has.
I fear the boredom that comes with not learning and not taking chances.
Perhaps I am doomed to retrace my steps under the illusion that I am exploring, doomed to try and learn what I should simply recognize, learning a mere fraction of what I have forgotten.
The most useful piece of learning for the uses of life is to unlearn what is untrue.
I think you're working and learning until you die.
I started practicing yoga. I started learning some hands-on healing stuff. And I found really good chiropractors, really good massage therapists, and what I found is I've been able to actually peel off layers of trauma on my body and actually move better now than I did.
I'm learning a lot about myself being alone, and doing what I'm doing.
No, I'm no enemy to learning it hurts not me.
The main part of intellectual education is not the acquisition of facts but learning how to make facts live.
Some are so very studious of learning what was done by the ancients that they know not how to live with the moderns.
Meditation here may think down hours to moments. Here the heart may give a useful lesson to the head and learning wiser grow without his books.
Secretary Powell and I agree on every single issue that has ever been before this administration except for those instances where Colin's still learning.
Learning should be a joy and full of excitement. It is life's greatest adventure it is an illustrated excursion into the minds of the noble and the learned.
A major advantage of age is learning to accept people without passing judgment.
Why waste time learning, when ignorance is instantaneous?
And I believe that the best learning process of any kind of craft is just to look at the work of others.
Never seem more learned than the people you are with. Wear your learning like a pocket watch and keep it hidden. Do not pull it out to count the hours, but give the time when you are asked.
English people don't have very good diction. In France you have to pronounce very particularly and clearly, and learning French at an early age helped me enormously.
I never found accents difficult, after learning languages.
Artists working for other artists is all about knowing, learning, unlearning, initiating long-term artistic dialogues, making connections, creating covens, and getting temporary shelter from the storm.
We are learning, too, that the love of beauty is one of Nature's greatest healers.
Justice turns the scale, bringing to some learning through suffering.
True, a little learning is a dangerous thing, but it still beats total ignorance.
No, I got a GED in my 30s. My kids know that I never stop learning, and they know I love reading. I have books overflowing everywhere. I am current on today's events and I read the paper every day, and we talk about it, so they see that appetite.
This has been a learning experience for me. I also thought that privacy was something we were granted in the Constitution. I have learned from this when in fact the word privacy does not appear in the Constitution.
Philosophy is a kind of journey, ever learning yet never arriving at the ideal perfection of truth.
Learning music by reading about it is like making love by mail.
Learning to dislike children at an early age saves a lot of expense and aggravation later in life.
The trouble with learning from experience is that you never graduate.
Perhaps the mission of those who love mankind is to make people laugh at the truth, to make truth laugh, because the only truth lies in learning to free ourselves from insane passion for the truth.
That is what learning is. You suddenly understand something you've understood all your life, but in a new way.
Learning to play with a big amplifier is like trying to control an elephant.
Yes. I did more research than I ever wanted to and saw some things I wish I didn't. I went on ride-alongs, spent time with Homicide, Cold Case, and SVU detectives, hung out in subways learning how to spot pervs and pick-pockets, viewed an autopsy, went to a police firing range, and witnessed court cases and I read, read, read.
Learning is acquired by reading books, but the much more necessary learning, the knowledge of the world, is only to be acquired by reading men, and studying all the various facets of them.
Let ignorance talk as it will, learning has its value.
Learning to make films is very easy. Learning what to make films about is very hard.
It's only through listening that you learn, and I never want to stop learning.
I'm just learning who I am and how relationships work and how to make them function. No different from anyone else.
What makes a child gifted and talented may not always be good grades in school, but a different way of looking at the world and learning.
Never stop learning knowledge doubles every fourteen months.
The learning process is something you can incite, literally incite, like a riot.
It's mainly about working hard and proving to people you're serious about it, and stretching yourself and learning. The mistake a lot of actors make, particularly young ones, is allowing themselves to feel that they're the finished articles, the bee's knees, and it's not true.
Wear your learning like your watch, in a private pocket and do not pull it out, and strike it, merely to show that you have one.
We tried to have diplomas without learning, we tried to have jobs without work, we tried to have houses without savings, we tried to have government without responsibility.
This life is a process of learning.
In the transmission of human culture, people always attempt to replicate, to pass on to the next generation the skills and values of the parents, but the attempt always fails because cultural transmission is geared to learning, not DNA.
Scholastic learning and polemical divinity retarded the growth of all true knowledge.
My father is a real idealist, and he's all about learning. If I asked for a pair of Nikes growing up, it was just a resounding 'No.' But if I asked for a saxophone, one would appear and next day and I'd be signed up for lessons. So anything to do with education or learning, my father would spare no expense.
You can be self-empowered and still learning about how you think about things daily.
Human beings are accustomed to think of intellect as the power of having and controlling ideas and of ability to learn as synonymous with ability to have ideas. But learning by having ideas is really one of the rare and isolated events in nature.
I always found the extraordinary loss of life in the First World War very moving. I remember learning about it as a very young child, as an eight- or nine-year-old, asking my teachers what poppies were for. Every year the teachers would suddenly wear these red paper flowers in their lapels, and I would say 'What does that mean?'
There is, so I believe, in the essence of everything, something that we cannot call learning. There is, my friend, only a knowledge - that is everywhere.
There is not to be found, in all history, any miracle attested by a sufficient number of men, of such unquestioned good sense, education and learning, as to secure us against all delusion in themselves.
A child's learning is a function more of the characteristics of his classmates than those of the teacher.
I hit a ball for a living, but I have that passion to keep learning.
A good teacher must be able to put himself in the place of those who find learning hard.
I had no expectations about fatherhood, really, but it's definitely a journey I'm glad to be taking. Number one, it's a great learning experience. When my mother told me it's a 24/7 job, she wasn't kidding.
It's a fundamental, social attitude that the 1% supports symphonies and operas and doesn't support Johnny learning to program hip-hop beats. When I put it like that, it sounds like, 'Well, yeah,' but you start to think, 'Why not, though?' What makes one more valuable than another?
Taking charge of your own learning is a part of taking charge of your life, which is the sine qua non in becoming an integrated person.
"No Child Left Behind' requires states and school districts to ensure that all students are learning and are reaching their highest potential. Special education students should not be left out of these accountability mechanisms.;Dianne Feinstein;learning
40797;Going to a party, for me, is as much a learning experience as, you know, sitting in a lecture.;Natalie Portman;learning
40798;Indeed - judicious, consistent parenting is a dream of mine. No judgements, learning space and listening carefully are my goals.;Emma Thompson;learning
40799;A man of great memory without learning hath a rock and a spindle and no staff to spin.;George Herbert;learning
40800;Kindness has converted more sinners than zeal, eloquence, or learning.;Frederick William Faber;learning
40801;I always say the minute I stop making mistakes is the minute I stop learning and I've definitely learned a lot.;Miley Cyrus;learning
40802;We can revolutionize the attitude of inner city brown and black kids to learning. We need a civil rights movement within the African-American community.;Henry Louis Gates;learning
40803;It is always good to explore the stuff you don't agree with, to try and understand a different lifestyle or foreign worldview. I like to be challenged in that way, and always end up learning something I didn't know.;Laura Linney;learning
40804;I got problems. I freak out, go to a shrink, go through all kinds of therapy and stuff, but I'm learning how to deal with it. That's why I've chosen one hour a night to get all of my aggressions out. to really tell the world the way I feel.;Jonathan Davis;learning
40805;Learning is pleasurable but doing is the height of enjoyment.;Novalis;learning
40806;Smatterers in learning are the most opinionated.;Samuel Richardson;learning
40807;There's no mystery to it. Nothing more complicated than learning lines and putting on a costume.;Morgan Freeman;learning
40808;Narcissist: psychoanalytic term for the person who loves himself more than his analyst considered to be the manifestation of a dire mental disease whose successful treatment depends on the patient learning to love the analyst more and himself less.;Thomas Szasz;learning
40809;The chess player who develops the ability to play two dozen boards at a time will benefit from learning to compress his or her analysis into less time.;Marilyn vos Savant;learning
40810;It helps immerse yourself in what you potentially want to do. Being involved, learning firsthand and observing the craft and absorbing all you can, makes it easier to define what you want. It will also ultimately make you a better Chef. Culinary school, or even a single class, is a great bet too.;Giada De Laurentiis;learning
40811;I believe that the testing of the student's achievements in order to see if he meets some criterion held by the teacher, is directly contrary to the implications of therapy for significant learning.;Carl Rogers;learning
40812;The soul is everlasting, and its learning experience is lifetime after lifetime.;Shirley MacLaine;learning
40813;In terms of doing work and in terms of learning and evolving as a person, you just grow more when you get more people's perspectives... I really try and live the mission of the company and... keep everything else in my life extremely simple.;Mark Zuckerberg;learning
40814;That is not enough. Sport has been great for me, a great learning place that if you want to achieve you can, even if you are from the poorest part of Africa.;Haile Gebrselassie;learning
40815;In university they don't tell you that the greater part of the law is learning to tolerate fools.;Doris Lessing;learning
40816;There was a time when young people respected learning and literature and now they don't.;Doris Lessing;learning
40817;What society doesn't realize is that in the past, ordinary people respected learning. They respected books, and they don't now, or not very much. That whole respect for serious literature and learning has disappeared.;Doris Lessing;learning
40818;I may be learning guitar, but I'll never be able to sing.;David Duchovny;learning
40819;There are certain things I learned when I first started learning about acting, to try and place the character physically and emotionally. And the way you place them emotionally is often with humor.;David Duchovny;learning
40820;Creative activity could be described as a type of learning process where teacher and pupil are located in the same individual.;Arthur Koestler;learning
40821;Spending time at the Federal Reserve was a good learning opportunity for me. It helped me to understand economic philosophies and polices that I had not previously known about.;Herman Cain;learning
40822;I'm going from doing all of the work to having to delegate the work - which is almost harder for me than doing the work myself. I'm a lousy delegator, but I'm learning.;Alton Brown;learning
40823;It's like learning a language you can't speak a language fluently until you find out who you are in that language, and that has as much to do with your body as it does with vocabulary and grammar.;Fred Frith;learning
40824;I'm interested in learning more about myself and what I value in myself and letting that be the beautiful part of me, rather than putting on the makeup or wearing the right designer.;Jessica Simpson;learning
40825;Making a wrong decision is understandable. Refusing to search continually for learning is not.;Phil Crosby;learning
40826;Women have to harness their power - its absolutely true. It's just learning not to take the first no. And if you can't go straight ahead, you go around the corner.;Cher;learning
40827;An humble knowledge of thyself is a surer way to God than a deep search after learning.;Thomas a Kempis;learning
40828;We must all learn a good lesson - how to live together. That is the new challenge of the new world... learning to co-exist and not co-annihilate.;Jesse Jackson;learning
40829;It's a weird sensation to be mad and learning at the same time.;Jeff Foxworthy;learning
40830;We started this band as kids, and as time has gone on, we've grown and are learning to accommodate each others' differences.;Layne Staley;learning
40831;We are a long time in learning that all our strength and salvation is in God.;David Brainerd;learning
40832;Everybody's a work in progress. I'm a work in progress. I mean, I've never arrived... I'm still learning all the time.;Renee Fleming;learning
40833;Jazz is the big brother of the blues. If a guy's playing blues like we play, he's in high school. When he starts playing jazz it's like going on to college, to a school of higher learning.;B. B. King;learning
40834;When you are learning about a martial art, it is about respect.;Jackie Chan;learning
40835;The signs of outstanding leadership appear primarily among the followers. Are the followers reaching their potential? Are they learning? Serving? Do they achieve the required results? Do they change with grace? Manage conflict?;Max de Pree;learning
40836;And I like asking questions, to keep learning people with big egos might not want to look unsure.;Heston Blumenthal;learning
40837;I think people are learning to actually aspire to be objectified.;Christina Ricci;learning
40838;I'm less worried about accomplishment - as younger people always can't help but be - and more concerned with spending my time well, spending time with my family, and reading, learning things.;Jonathan Safran Foer;learning
40839;In many ways, it was much, much harder to get the first book contract. The hardest thing probably overall has been learning not to trust people, publicists and so forth, implicitly.;Neil Gaiman;learning
40840;Unprovided with original learning, unformed in the habits of thinking, unskilled in the arts of composition, I resolved to write a book.;Edward Gibbon;learning
40841;I love learning new techniques.;David Bailey;learning
40842;I'm getting to a point where everything is becoming streamlined in my life. I'm learning how to stand onstage for two hours and play in front of thousands of people as if I am completely in the moment every moment.;John Mayer;learning
40843;I've figured out my learning curve. I can look at something and somehow know exactly how long it will take for me to learn it.;John Mayer;learning
40844;The role of the musician is to go from concept to full execution. Put another way, it's to go from understanding the content of something to really learning how to communicate it and make sure it's well-received and lives in somebody else.;Yo-Yo Ma;learning
40845;Learning is always rebellion... Every bit of new truth discovered is revolutionary to what was believed before.;Margaret Lee Runbeck;learning
40846;If your faith is opposed to experience, to human learning and investigation, it is not worth the breath used in giving it expression.;E. W. Howe;learning
40847;I'm learning English at the moment. I can say 'Big Ben', 'Hello Rodney', 'Tower Bridge' and 'Loo'.;Cher;learning
40848;The purpose of learning is growth, and our minds, unlike our bodies, can continue growing as we continue to live.;Mortimer Adler;learning
40849;The best way of learning to be an independent sovereign state is to be an independent sovereign state.;Kwame Nkrumah;learning
40850;I can install toilets. I know all about the wax ring. I can tile floors. I'm learning how to do basic wiring.;Sandra Bullock;learning
40851;No phenomenon can be isolated, but has repercussions through every aspect of our lives. We are learning that we are a fundamental part of nature's ecosystems.;Arthur Erickson;learning
40852;So I've seen life as one long learning process. And if I see - you know, if I fly on somebody else's airline and find the experience is not a pleasant one, which it wasn't in - 21 years ago, then I'd think, well, you know, maybe I can create the kind of airline that I'd like to fly on.;Richard Branson;learning
40853;It definitely has learning a lesson about the way you're living your life. I wouldn't compare our movie to that, but it has a structure where it's about a man who doesn't appreciate all that he has and finds out at the end that life has been great and he has to enjoy that.;Adam Sandler;learning
40854;In the same way that we need statesmen to spare us the abjection of exercising power, we need scholars to spare us the abjection of learning.;Jean Baudrillard;learning
40855;Learning carries within itself certain dangers because out of necessity one has to learn from one's enemies.;Leon Trotsky;learning
40856;Education is the process in which we discover that learning adds quality to our lives. Learning must be experienced.;William Glasser;learning
40857;Just learning that you have MS is such a devastating shock.;Annette Funicello;learning
40858;The important thing is to learn a lesson every time you lose. Life is a learning process and you have to try to learn what's best for you. Let me tell you, life is not fun when you're banging your head against a brick wall all the time.;John McEnroe;learning
40859;Learning is not compulsory... neither is survival.;W. Edwards Deming;learning
40860;I think children learning to cook can be such a wonderful thing. It can help build confidence, make them feel good about themselves. It helped me build my ego and even start to get acceptance at school. I'd bring things to class that I'd cooked at home.;Giada De Laurentiis;learning
40861;The library is the temple of learning, and learning has liberated more people than all the wars in history.;Carl T. Rowan;learning
40862;Learning a foreign language, and the culture that goes with it, is one of the most useful things we can do to broaden the empathy and imaginative sympathy and cultural outlook of children.;Michael Gove;learning
40863;Instead of going to college, I spent my time out on the road learning how to be a better musician.;Miranda Lambert;learning
40864;Learning to read music in Braille and play by ear helped me develop a damn good memory.;Ray Charles;learning
40865;The audience, upon learning that the real Buffalo Bill was present, gave several cheers between the acts.;Buffalo Bill;learning
40866;That's what we need nowadays, is more children that have goals other than being a sports figure or some kind of celebrity. I think it's great that a kid wants to learn more and wants to be at the peak of learning, especially at that young.;Joe Nichols;learning
40867;I have often thought of it as one of the most barbarous customs in the world, considering us as a civilized and a Christian country, that we deny the advantages of learning to women.;Daniel Defoe;learning
40868;We'll be going to the fish market and a farmer's market this afternoon to get what we need to make and eat dinner as a family. I'm trying to expose my kids to going to a farmers market or the fish market and learning what that's all about.;Emeril Lagasse;learning
40869;I knew nothing about martial arts. The coach told me I was talented with learning martial arts, and put me in a school. Three years later I got my first championship in China.;Jet Li;learning
40870;It's really difficult for me. Language, I am sorry that I haven't. I think I just always expected that you learn a word in place of a word and when I discovered how difficult the grammar was and learning that was very discouraging for me.;Bo Derek;learning
40871;I think I started learning lessons about being a good person long before I ever knew what basketball was. And that starts in the home, it starts with the parental influence.;Julius Erving;learning
40872;I was studying for the SAT's and learning lines.;Joseph Gordon-Levitt;learning
40873;Some for renown, on scraps of learning dote, And think they grow immortal as they quote.;Edward Young;learning
40874;Producing is just a big learning experience.;Ashley Tisdale;learning
40875;I had learning disabilities, and I couldn't express myself in the written word.;Laura Linney;learning
40876;I enjoy learning about different periods and people, and then taking what's universal about the human condition and seeing where it matches up. No matter where you are, certain things unite everybody.;Laura Linney;learning
40877;Benevolence alone will not make a teacher, nor will learning alone do it. The gift of teaching is a peculiar talent, and implies a need and a craving in the teacher himself.;John Jay Chapman;learning
40878;There are two ways to extend a business. Take inventory of what you're good at and extend out from your skills. Or determine what your customers need and work backward, even if it requires learning new skills. Kindle is an example of working backward.;Jeff Bezos;learning
40879;Since we can't know what knowledge will be most needed in the future, it is senseless to try to teach it in advance. Instead, we should try to turn out people who love learning so much and learn so well that they will be able to learn whatever needs to be learned.;John Holt;learning
40880;My father had never watched tennis, never liked tennis too much. He said, 'OK, we buy a racket, we watch together,' because we didn't know anything. It was a process of learning together that made it more interesting.;Novak Djokovic;learning
40881;I was not good in school. I could never read very fast or very well. I got tested for learning disabilities, for dyslexia. Then I got put on Ritalin and Dexedrine. I took those starting in the eighth grade. As soon as they pumped that drug into me, it would focus me right in.;Channing Tatum;learning
40882;My life path has been a blessing and a great learning experience. Skateboarding is my passion and I don't see that changing. When I'm not skating, I love to surf. I'm open to the new experiences and opportunities.;Ryan Sheckler;learning
40883;Let schoolmasters puzzle their brain, With grammar, and nonsense, and learning, Good liquor, I stoutly maintain, Gives genius a better discerning.;Oliver Goldsmith;learning
40884;All the time a person is a child he is both a child and learning to be a parent. After he becomes a parent he becomes predominantly a parent reliving childhood.;Benjamin Spock;learning
40885;I'm still learning, you know. At 80, I feel there is a lot I don't know.;Lena Horne;learning
40886;There's no way I can justify my salary level, but I'm learning to live with it.;Drew Carey;learning
40887;I used to be scared of women. When I was very young they terrified me, but discovering the female universe was incredible and still is to this day, as you never stop learning about them.;Antonio Banderas;learning
40888;I've finally learnt how to say, 'No comment'. To appear in the tabloids is a real learning curve and a steep one at that. You had better learn quick or you get burnt.;Ben Affleck;learning
40889;No Child Left Behind's fourth-grade gains aren't learning gains, they're testing gains. That's why they don't last. The law is a distraction from things that really count.;Jonathan Kozol;learning
40890;The countries who do the best in international comparisons, whether it's Finland or Japan, Denmark or Singapore, do well because they have professional teachers who are respected, and they also have family and community which support learning.;Howard Gardner;learning
40891;If people are made to feel uncomfortable in the kitchen, they won't go in there. That's why I think children learning to cook can be such a wonderful thing.;Giada De Laurentiis;learning
40892;I was a total education geek. I loved school. I loved learning. I loved doing homework. All of my books and notebooks from high school are underlined and highlighted and there are notes all over the margins. And you know, I was a theater kid too. I was all over the place.;Sophia Bush;learning
40893;We're not that much smarter than we used to be, even though we have much more information - and that means the real skill now is learning how to pick out the useful information from all this noise.;Nate Silver;learning
40894;By playing games you can artificially speed up your learning curve to develop the right kind of thought processes.;Nate Silver;learning
40895;I think my biggest focus for myself is learning how to continue to get through the trauma that my father has caused in my life.;Lindsay Lohan;learning
40896;The only thing that mattered was what you were to do in life, and it wasn't about money. It was about teaching, or learning.;Maya Lin;learning
40897;You should be having more fun in high school, exploring things because you want to explore them and learning because you love learning-not worrying about competition.;Maya Lin;learning
40898;For me, art is about learning and about living with people. It's alive.;Miuccia Prada;learning
40899;My learning process is by eye alone it's not at all scientific.;Miuccia Prada;learning
40900;Composing gives me a chance to work in multiple dimensions and helps me pare down my melodies into what is essential. Learning new skills has always energized me and scoring has opened up a world of sonic possibilities.;Liz Phair;learning
40901;One goes through school, college, medical school and one's internship learning little or nothing about goodness but a good deal about success.;Ashley Montagu;learning
40902;Few are there that will leave the secure seclusion of the scholar's life, the peaceful walks of literature and learning, to stand out a target for the criticism of unkind and hostile minds.;Felix Adler;learning
40903;A commitment to human rights cannot be fostered simply through the transmission of knowledge. Action and experience play a crucial role in the learning process.;Daisaku Ikeda;learning
40904;I'm still at the beginning of my career. It's all a little new, and I'm still learning as I go.;Orlando Bloom;learning
40905;My advice to an aspiring actor would be to never stop learning or working for what you want. Nothing comes easy, ever, if you want something, you have to work for it. By working for it I mean work on your craft, learn from people who have something to teach. It's just like anything else, practice makes perfect.;James Lafferty;learning
40906;I have terrible handwriting. I now say it's a learning disability... but a nun who was a very troubled woman hit me over the fingers with a ruler because my writing was so bad.;Andrew Greeley;learning
40907;I had great faith in Irish actors, that they'd be hip to the whole theatre thing, and they are. I had no illusions of coming over here as some kind of big shot. It's been a learning experience for me too.;Christopher Meloni;learning
40908;I'm always learning from experiences because each one is different and there are different players involved in the project at the time with their own way of doing things.;Christopher Meloni;learning
40909;Books have led some to learning and others to madness.;Petrarch;learning
40910;There is no royal road to learning no short cut to the acquirement of any art.;Anthony Trollope;learning
40911;Learning to speak was the most remarkable thing you ever did.;Jeffrey Kluger;learning
40912;The mind of the polyglot is a very particular thing, and scientists are only beginning to look closely at how acquiring a second language influences learning, behavior and the very structure of the brain itself.;Jeffrey Kluger;learning
40913;We're learning how important it is both to preserve sibling relationships if they work and repair them if they're broken. We're also learning a lot about nonliteral siblings - stepsiblings, half-siblings - and the surprising power they can have.;Jeffrey Kluger;learning
40914;Much learning shows how little mortals know much wealth, how little wordings enjoy.;Edward Young;learning
40915;But if we learn to think of it as anticipation, as learning, as growing, if we think of the time we spend waiting for the big things of life as an opportunity instead of a passing of time, what wonderful horizons open out!;Anna Neagle;learning
40916;I was learning, as I did in the Ministry of Defense. I never knew, but I always learned.;Shimon Peres;learning
40917;Without feeling abashed by my ignorance, I confess that I am absolutely unable to say. In the absence of an appearance of learning, my answer has at least one merit, that of perfect sincerity.;Jean Henri Fabre;learning
40918;The spotlight will always be on me, but it's something I'm learning to live with as the years go by.;David Beckham;learning
40919;I was diagnosed with a severe temporal spatial deficit, a learning disability that means I have zero spatial relations skills. It was official: I was a genius trapped in an idiot's body.;Sloane Crosley;learning
40920;I really have a great deal of humility in that department, and a great deal of respect for people who spend their lives learning how to make these amazing preparations.;Ted Allen;learning
40921;I am growing and learning. There's so much more that I want to accomplish and do. I'm gonna do it at whatever pace it happens. I'm not trying to rush anything or slow anything down.;Jordin Sparks;learning
40922;I feel the older I get, the more I'm learning to handle life. Being on this quest for a long time, it's all about finding yourself.;Ringo Starr;learning
40923;I grow old learning something new every day.;Solon;learning
40924;I'm learning to accept the lack of privacy as the real downer in my profession.;Halle Berry;learning
40925;All are agreed, that the increase of learning and good morals are great blessings to society.;Joseph Lancaster;learning
40926;I've had a tough time learning how to act like a congressman. Today I accidentally spent some of my own money.;Joseph P. Kennedy;learning
40927;I have no control over what people think of me but I have 100% control of what I think of myself, and that is so important. And not just about your body, but so many ways of confidence. You're constantly learning how to be confident, aren't you?;Beth Ditto;learning
40928;I can't do the same movies all my life. I'm conscious of that. But it's a trade-off. 'Dear John' allowed me to do movies I've wanted to do. You learn to balance it out. I'm still learning. Only now am I getting to do the kinds of movies that I have wanted to do. So it's a steady climb. You don't jump into a Soderbergh film.;Channing Tatum;learning
40929;To be proud of learning is the greatest ignorance.;Jeremy Taylor;learning
40930;I've always loved music, but I never really played anything. After 'Walk the Line' and learning to play guitar, and having that sense of performing, I think that certainly opened the door for me, for music.;Joaquin Phoenix;learning
40931;I'm pleased to say my knee feels a lot better. It's still not back to normal, and I don't know if it ever will be, but I'm learning to deal with it instead of expecting it to be like it was before.;Shawn Johnson;learning
40932;You never stop learning. If you have a teacher, you never stop being a student.;Elisabeth Rohm;learning
40933;In the beginning when I sat next to Tom Brokaw on the 'Today' show, the stories I was interested in were those having to do with women and children and learning and health. In those days, 25 to 30 years ago, that was called soft news, and not in a nice way.;Jane Pauley;learning
40934;I love nature and enjoy learning new skills.;Leona Lewis;learning
40935;People are more comfortable learning about wine because now they can just Google, you know, 'Soave,' and say, 'Oh, O.K., cool."
I spend a lot of time learning about bird watching.
There's no learning without trying lots of ideas and failing lots of times.
Strange as it may seem, no amount of learning can cure stupidity, and formal education positively fortifies it.
What I'm still grappling with and learning how to do is to be looking and thinking cinematically, having come from television.
Are your kids learning the right lessons about 9/11? Ten years after Osama bin Laden's henchmen murdered thousands of innocents on American soil, too many children have been spoon-fed the thin gruel of progressive political correctness over the stiff antidote of truth.
A little learning is not a dangerous thing to one who does not mistake it for a great deal.
Teaching is the royal road to learning.
People desire to separate their worlds into polarities of dark and light, ugly and beautiful, good and evil, right and wrong, inside and outside. Polarities serve us in our learning and growth, but as souls we are all.
Man, after all my grandma put into me learning the piano, that was a hard day, telling her I was telling jokes for a living.
I am a firm believer that God has already ordered the things that have taken place in my life...and I'm just learning to follow the path he's laid before me.
The experience gathered from books, though often valuable, is but the nature of learning whereas the experience gained from actual life is one of the nature of wisdom.
I'm happy to be helping people that are passionate about empowering parents for student learning.
I'm trying to get in the habit of, you know, picking up a book and learning how to write my feelings down, not my feelings but my thoughts, about things, and hopefully I'll moving toward the writing and directing thing soon.
I like learning new stuff, and continuing to educate myself as best I can.
I think my type of personality has all music inside of it, so I am full of music, without even knowing it, without even learning it, without even hearing it.
Learning another language is not only learning different words for the same things, but learning another way to think about things.
Often as a child you see someone with a learning disability or Down's Syndrome and my mum and dad were always very quick to explain exactly what was going on and to be in their own way inclusive and welcoming.
And, one thing I definitely enjoyed personally, from a selfish point of view, was exploration and going to places that I had never been to before and learning, you know, meeting the people and getting to know, new sights and sounds, etc.
Learning how to relive again on life's terms sure doesn't do much for your confidence. You have to kind of walk in faith that the next step is going to be just a little bit better than the last step.
Learning is a tunnel experience that makes us think more broadly.
What matters to me is learning and growing, and getting to do what I love to do. As long as I can do that, I'm happy.
There are many ways to grow football-wise. You go slow or are pushed to go faster, otherwise you get left behind. For me, there would be trouble in stopping learning.
Acting is not about dressing up. Acting is about stripping bare. The whole essence of learning lines is to forget them so you can make them sound like you thought of them that instant.
I eventually became proud of my strikeouts, because each one represented another learning experience.
TV is so different from the movies. It takes a lot of stamina because you work such long hours. It is really challenging. You are learning the next day's lines while you are shooting today's scenes. I found courage I never realised I had. I hope to do more.
When I was first learning songs, I'd have a favorite song, and I'd take the chords and twist them around. I'd learn the chords and then play them backward. That was my first experimenting with writing a song.
I raised five children. They all have different personalities. All of them have different issues, different levels of success. That was a learning experience for me.
I never refused an autograph, never refused to buy someone a drink. Now I'm learning to say I've got other things on, instead of doing it and wondering why.
By keeping my hand in that, it's the way I keep learning. The main way you learn in medicine is by practicing and working with patients.
I feel like I'm still learning a lot. I think there's a tendency for people who are just doing their first couple of films that I see now where they seem to be really resentful of the technical limitations that come along with filmmaking.
For the past eight years, the right has been better at working the refs. Now the left is learning how to play the game.
I became CEO at the beginning of the hit on old economy stocks. When something like that occurs in your first six months as a CEO of a more traditional branded firm, it makes for a fast learning curve.
Life is about learning when you stop learning, you die.
You keep learning all the time.
My father is a chemist, my mother was a homemaker. My parents instilled in us the feeling that learning was the most exciting thing that could happen to you, and it never ends.
I finish so many books it's amazing. I'm also doing Rosetta Stone, learning some French.
Before this learning experience, I had assumed that with regard to programs that sought to help people out of poverty, the political world was essentially divided into two camps: conservatives who opposed these for a variety of reasons, and liberals who supported them.
I was a kid, and I wasn't even sure if I wanted to play the drums, you know? All I wanted to do was skateboard, but I was still learning and taking it in, so it was good.
I don't think I've ever been moulded but I think I am always learning.
I've bought pretty much every book ever written about the Alamo, and I talk to my friends that I've made over the past 15, 20 years. It's just a constant learning and fascinating thing for me.
The process of learning requires not only hearing and applying but also forgetting and then remembering again.
Hungry people cannot be good at learning or producing anything, except perhaps violence.
Generally, I like making my own mistakes and learning from them because that's what I think life is about.
I think that if you keep your eyes and your ears open and you are receptive to learning, there are skills you can get from any job at all.
Learning what you don't want to do is pretty valuable, it may be as valuable as figuring out what it is you do want to do.
The only animals I'm not comfortable with are parrots, but I'm learning as I go. I'm getting better and better at 'em. I really am.
Emotional 'literacy' implies an expanded responsibility for schools in helping to socialize children. This daunting task requires two major changes: that teachers go beyond their traditional mission and that people in the community become more involved with schools as both active participants in children's learning and as individual mentors.
I'm passionate about learning. I'm passionate about life.
I'm writing a book and working on my one-woman show, Learning To Be Human.
The hardest of all is learning to be a well of affection, and not a fountain to show them we love them not when we feel like it, but when they do.
Education in our times must try to find whatever there is in students that might yearn for completion, and to reconstruct the learning that would enable them autonomously to seek that completion.
It's learning how to negotiate to keep both sides happy - whether it's for a multi-million dollar contract or just which show to watch on TV, that determines the quality and enjoyment of our lives.
I'm nearing the end of the road and still learning.
The Tea Party was born out of the disgust many Americans felt early in the financial crisis upon learning that the federal government was even contemplating reducing the principal on some troubled mortgages.
Being steeped in the process of learning and exploring keeps me from becoming too nervous. Partly it's about not getting bored.
Learning operatic roles is ongoing, and I find that I can learn on the train or subway, during a manicure, getting my hair done, and even while driving if I only look at the score at red lights.
It has to be a very specific role for me because of my accent. I can't complain I've been working since I got to LA. But it is hard. I have no training as an actress so I try whatever I do like school, because I'm learning.
Year by year we are learning that in this restless, strenuous American life of ours vacations are essential.
He that knew all that learning ever writ, Knew only this - that he knew nothing yet.
Whether it's 18 years old or 40 years old, we think we know what's going on. But if you're lucky enough to continue the journey, its amazing how we keep learning how much we didn't know.
Learning lines is on my mind until I do know them. I'll read the paper or paint the house to keep from starting to memorize. I've never found an easy way.
It's not the teaching, it's the learning.
I loved making Pure Country. It was a great learning experience for me, seeing another part of the entertainment industry.
No man is the wiser for his learning it may administer matter to work in, or objects to work upon but wit and wisdom are born with a man.
I'm still shy - I'm no good at my children's parent-teacher conferences, and I'm slowly learning how to ask for what I want. But I now know that I have a reserve of courage to draw upon when I really need it. There's nothing that I'm too scared to have a go at.
After you start learning all about the mechanics of piloting a riverboat, you stop seeing all the pretty sunsets and you start thinking about the weather.
After learning the language and culture of the Chinese people, these Jesuits began to establish contacts with the young intellectuals of the country.
I prefer to think of myself as a musician who is still learning and trying to do something every time out.
We believe that if you put in place the mechanisms that allow for personal choice as far as Medicare is concerned, as well as the programs in Medicaid, that we can actually get to a better result and do what most Americans are learning how to do, which is to do more with less.
From the time I started school, it was clear to everyone that I wasn't learning at the same pace as other kids.
So foolish is the heart of man that he ever puts his hope in the future, learning nothing from his past errors and fancying that tomorrow must be better than today.
Learning how to improvise really awakened my interest in music.
The learning curve is 'The Hobbit' is being shot in 3D.
Next year, I hope there will be even more parties, lots of holidays and just having a good time, really. Plus wing-walking, air shows and learning to fly, as they are all things I want to do. I won't be restricted by age.
You should put time into learning your craft. It seems like people want success so quickly, way before they're ready.
In the end, the humanities can only be defended by stressing how indispensable they are and this means insisting on their vital role in the whole business of academic learning, rather than protesting that, like some poor relation, they don't cost much to be housed.
I'm constantly learning, and that is the greatest gift of life in my opinion - to always be learning and growing.
Now, for this book I had to learn the world of the Senate, which is really for all that's written about the Senate, an unknowing world and its mores, and the way things work with subcommittees and all. I loved learning about that.
If you live through the initial stage of fame and get past it, and remember thats not who you are. If you live past that, then you have a hope of maybe learning how to spell the word artist.
I think the most wonderful thing in the world is another chef. I'm always excited about learning new things about food.
It's not like learning how to hit a curve ball in baseball.
The excitement of learning separates youth from old age. As long as you're learning you're not old.
I am involved with 'Write Girl,' which is such a great organization, because they go into inner city schools and work with underprivileged girls to pair them up with other writers. And it gets them learning to express themselves and become familiar with their own voice. They have a 100% success ratio getting those girls into college.
I think I'm learning to be bolder in my career choices and be more confident in my personal life. I haven't always felt very secure as an individual, but now I feel I certain confidence and sense of self that gets me through the day a lot better than before.
This is actually a very important principle that science is learning about large systems like evolution and that futurists are learning about anticipating human society: just because a future scenario is plausible doesn't mean we can get there from here.
Recipes tell you nothing. Learning techniques is the key.
Directors who turn into big babies and shut out criticism stop learning.
Churchill was the canny political animal, very devious, bursting with energy and determination, learning as hard as he could.
I've been learning martial arts since I was 8 years old.
I spend more time learning about Buddhism than English, which is why my English today is still bad.
When I was 8 years old, I knew nothing about martial arts. The coach told me I was talented with learning martial arts, and put me in a school.
Just because you are CEO, don't think you have landed. You must continually increase your learning, the way you think, and the way you approach the organization. I've never forgotten that.
A lot of what I've been learning in the last two years is due to therapy - about my sexuality, why things go wrong, why relationships haven't worked. It isn't anything to do with anybody else it's to do with me.
I had decided I wanted to write about food, and I knew the only way to do that is to speak with authority, which meant learning the language and knowing what that experience is like.
I view life as a learning experience. It is not so much all about music it is about what happens when you are doing the music.
Hollywood and the recording industry argue that current law permits the copying of songs and movies, and sharing them on the Internet. This enables young people to grow up learning how to steal.
Contrary to current cynicism about past golden ages, the abstraction known as 'the intelligent layperson' does exist - in the form of millions of folks with a passionate commitment to continuous learning.
The greatest gift that Oxford gives her sons is, I truly believe, a genial irreverence toward learning, and from that irreverence love may spring.
As I was coming up, it always seemed like I was learning. If it wasn't from school, it was the 'hood. The influences of the 'hood are very powerful.
The secret of learning to be sick is this: Illness doesn't make you less of what you were. You are still you.
I get stubborn and dig in when people tell me I can't do something and I think I can. It goes back to my childhood when I had problems in school because I have a learning disability.
I can't sit down long enough to absorb any kind of learning.
Being a geek is all about learning the inventories of things.
If you look at the opening of 'Private Ryan,' you are so in the point of view of those guys and there is a whole world swirling all around them. You are learning that geography as they are learning it.
This enemy of peace in the world today is unlike any we have seen in the past, and our military is learning from, and building on, previous successes while carrying peace and freedom into the future.
I brought a Border Collie back home to Vancouver from Wales - where some of my ancestors are from - and needed to challenge him in other ways than just being my pet. So I investigated sheep herding and took a few lessons, and decided I was probably learning more than my dog!
Your work is first, learning is first, winning is everything because without it there is nothing.
Learning is the ally, not the adversary of genius... he who reads in a proper spirit, can scarcely read too much.
If anybody wanted to photograph my life, they'd get bored in a day. 'Heres Matt at home learning his lines. Here's Matt researching in aisle six of his local library'. A few hours of that and they'd go home.
Learning to see waste and systematically eliminate it has allowed lean companies such as Toyota to dominate entire industries. Lean thinking defines value as 'providing benefit to the customer' anything else is waste.
It is never easy to win but it is a lot easier to win when you play well. The key is winning golf tournaments when you are not playing so well. Managing your game is something that I feel that I am still learning to do.
I thought I was learning about show business. The more painful it was, the more important I thought the experience must be. Hating it, I convinced myself it must be invaluable.
I do remember actually learning chords to Beatles songs. I thought they were great songwriters.
I'm really enjoying the process of learning to fly. How it will fit into my life down the road - I'm looking forward to discovering that.
Also, I'm always learning better and better how to prioritize and how to leave certain things for the next day.
You can learn as much about the history from reading about the present as you can vice versa, that is learning about the present through history, which is what I do for a living.
The Seinfeld motto: No learning, no hugging.
It disturbs me when Obama says in the State of the Union address that he wants to make dropping out of school at 18 illegal, because people learn differently and before there are forms of learning for every type of person in the world, we shouldn't be condemned for leaving.
I'm an obsessive hiker and I do it every day for two hours and it really helps me when it comes to learning songs or scripts.
And where does magic come from? I think that magic's in the learning.
When we think about online learning, it's such 'early days.' Bill Gates is a wildly smart insightful guy. Yet, even a guy as smart and insightful as that, 30 years ago can say things like,'Who's every going to need more than 640K of memory?'
I enjoyed studying costume, learning about the corsetry and the historical context of fashion. I never had any real intention of being a costume designer.
Tennis was always sort of a - a learning. It was a vehicle for me to discover a lot about myself. And the things that I sort of discovered at times I not only didn't want to see it for myself but I certainly didn't want millions of people to see it.
The main thing that gives me hope is the media. We have radio, TV, magazines, and books, so we have the possibility of learning from societies that are remote from us, like Somalia. We turn on the TV and see what blew up in Iraq or we see conditions in Afghanistan.
I'm learning Spanish - I got Rosetta Stone for Christmas.
You have to grow thick skin and that only comes with time and learning.
I am learning to forgive my inner geek, and even value him as a free man.
The trick in life is learning how to deal with it.
There's some movies I watch, they're kind of like my anti-anxiety pill, my anti-depressant pill. I watch them at least once or twice a month probably. And I never stop learning from them as a filmmaker.
I've always been an avid reader. If I don't have a book in the car, I'll stop and pick one up just to have something to read. I don't even remember learning to read.
I think Russian people are learning that democracy is not an alien thing it's not a western invention.
What keeps you confident in a healthy way is knowing that everyone else around you is going to support you and teach you and you're going to learn from them. I just feel open to learning from people.
I used to be so aggressive, but after a while I started learning. It's not that I know how to adapt, but I know all styles of fighting so I can change my style of fighting to whatever it needs to be. That just comes from years of training and a lot of sparring partners.
I think my family and closest friends are learning about my need to withdraw, and I am learning how to restore and store my energy to both serve the community to the best of my ability and to serve my writer's heart.
Bottom line: if you show a genuine interest in learning about how others became successful, you can open up a world of opportunities.
The country remains dependent on oil. But as we are now learning, oil is becoming increasingly scarce.
My mom had this romantic notion of her children playing classical music. The idea is you learn it when you're still learning language. It's using the same part of the brain.
The prudent course is to make an investment in learning, testing and understanding, determine how the new concepts compare to how you now operate and thoughtfully determine how they apply to what you want to achieve in the future.
My biggest project right now is trying to be a really great mom and learning how to balance family and career. I'm just trying to spend as much time with my family as I can.
For me, 'Rent' was all about coming out of myself, finding out who I was, learning the power I could have as a performer.
So, for example, if a child is labeled as having a learning disability, it has very concrete consequences for the kinds of services and potentially accommodations that child will get.
I feel like that I'm learning all the time. I'm learning from new artists, from established artists... every time I listen to '70s rock 'n' roll records, I'm learning. And I think that I'm just now starting to get a hold on what I do.
I really hope that we'll have a sustainable future on this planet, I really do. So I probably geek out mostly about learning more about how potentially we can hopefully make that happen, hopefully we're not too far lost.
I spent a lot of time in the school psychologist's office. I didn't apply myself. My mother thought I had learning disabilities.
There has to be innate circuitry that does the learning, that creates the culture, that acquires the culture, and that responds to socialization.
You have to study your field and you have to find out how other people do it, and you have to keep working and learning and practicing and ultimately, you would be able to do it.
I feel like I was writing as I was learning to talk. Writing was always a go-to form of communication. And I knew I could sing from being in tune with the radio.
I feel like I was writing as I was learning to talk. Writing was always a go to form of communication.
As children, as we learn what things are, we are slowly learning to dismiss them visually. As adults, entirely submerged in words and concepts, we spend almost all of our time thinking and worrying about the past and the future, hardly ever looking at or engaging with the world visually.
I'm pretty focused on my career, and if it comes down to hanging out with somebody or learning my lines, it's gonna be learning my lines.
If you desire ease, forsake learning.
I'm learning, but I'm getting better at it because I'm learning how to hear God in worship.
I am just learning to notice the different colors of the stars, and already begin to have a new enjoyment.
The world of learning is so broad, and the human soul is so limited in power!
During the days of segregation, there was not a place of higher learning for African Americans. They were simply not welcome in many of the traditional schools. And from this backward policy grew the network of historical black colleges and universities.
The rare person is still interested in new advances when they are adults. There is possibly a correlation with intelligence. In any case, you have to be fairly bright to keep learning and changing attitudes as you get older.
Lie detection is like language there is a learning window. Telling whoppers to small children seems to be a family tradition in many families.
I never was good at learning things. I did just enough work to pass. In my opinion it would have been wrong to do more than was just sufficient, so I worked as little as possible.
Children themselves know they are being cheated. Ultimately we owe it to our children. They are in school for 190 days a year. Every moment they spend learning is precious. If a year goes by and they are not being stretched and excited, that blights their life.
It is literally the case that learning languages makes you smarter. The neural networks in the brain strengthen as a result of language learning.
That is what I'm looking forward to the most, practical learning. I want to be a registered nurse so getting to talk to people who already work in those jobs can really teach me what to expect when I get out in the real world.
I'm still learning my craft.
The tradition of Russian literature is also an eastern tradition of learning poetry and prose by heart.
Again, the American people expect us to do what they are doing. It's tightening the belt, it's learning how to do more with less. That's a reality today, and we've got to do that in order to get the private sector growing.
Part of my training was learning how to refer patients to cardiologists for heart problems, gastroenterologists for stomach issues, and rheumatologists for joint pain. Given that most physicians were trained this way, it's no wonder that the average Medicare patient has six doctors and is on five different medications.
As an audience member, those studio films are fun. I like an adventure tale, and I also like to go see something that has more of a social pulse. I like to keep learning and trying new things. And if the scripts are good, it doesn't really matter.
I met a lot of young girls modelling and they were like, 'Oh, I'm running around town and people are taking my picture', while I was saving receipts and learning how to be self-employed.
Perfecting oneself is as much unlearning as it is learning.
Of course, learning is strengthened and solidified when it occurs in a safe, secure and normal environment.
Quality afterschool programs provide safe, engaging and fun learning experiences to help children and youth develop their social, emotional, physical, cultural and academic skills.
Acting has always existed alongside my normal life. It's been a case of learning on the job. I've worked in so many styles, with so many people, so I've picked bits up from everyone and everything.
I'm interested in all forms of performance, yet I think it's difficult to be as equally talented in all of them as they call for such different skills. At the moment, I still feel I'm learning and want as much experience and variety as possible.
In a world that is constantly changing, there is no one subject or set of subjects that will serve you for the foreseeable future, let alone for the rest of your life. The most important skill to acquire now is learning how to learn.
The novel is about five students of classics who are studying with a classics professor, and they take the ideas of the things that they're learning from him a bit too seriously, with terrible consequences.
It is no secret that the fruits of language study are in no sort of relation to the labour spent on teaching and learning them.
Every time you go in, it's like starting over. You don't know how you did the other records. You're learning all over. It's some weird musician amnesia, or maybe the road wipes it out.
Having photographed the landscape for a number of years and specifically working with trees and in the forest I found, without consciously thinking about it, that it was a great learning experience for me in terms of organizing elements.
Acting is a life experience. I'm always learning things when I'm making a movie. So the fame part of it is fine when you consider what you get out of this job.
Good education means learning to read, write and most importantly learn how to learn so that you can be whatever you want to be when you grow up.
I started playing ukulele first for 2 years from age 9 to 11 and got my first guitar and got inspired by blues I heard on the radio that turned me on and I started learning myself.
One thing changes every evening: It's the audience, and I'm working my magic. I'm always learning from it.
A love of books, of holding a book, turning its pages, looking at its pictures, and living its fascinating stories goes hand-in-hand with a love of learning.
I guess confidence is the only thing that I take from project to project, but I'm always open to learning everybody's style - the director, the actor I'm working with.
I opened my own restaurant when I was 17. I went broke, then traveled around the country, learning about different kinds of foods, had three other restaurants that went broke. It didn't all start just a few years ago!
That was a real learning element for me, because I realized that the more true you are to yourself, the more you will lose people.
But, if you observe children learning in their first few years of life, you can see that they can and do learn on their own - we leave them alone to crawl, walk, talk, and gain control over their bodies. It happens without much help from parents.
I'd love to go to fashion week! I'm learning more about designers, thanks to 'Pretty Little Liars'' costume designer, Mandi Line.
People mature at different stages and I feel I'm learning a lot.
They are the guiding oracles which man has found out for himself in that great business of ours, of learning how to be, to do, to do without, and to depart.
The battle was first waged over the right of the Negro to be classed as a human being with a soul later, as to whether he had sufficient intellect to master even the rudiments of learning and today it is being fought out over his social recognition.
I've seen a lot of the United States, having stayed in so many different cities and towns for work. It's such a strange and fascinating country, and instead of learning about it through a textbook, I would rather discover its history and traditions and institutions through fiction and nonfiction writers.
I wanted to get to that aesthetic proposition that comes out of learning the human elements of a world, so that those notes and rhythms mean something to you besides just the academic way in which they fall in place.
I speak about family and adoption because it 100% changed my life and who I am. It definitely played a very large role into just learning how to be grateful for what you have and being fulfilled in a way that a lot of adopted kids don't feel.
I'd love to do a romantic comedy. And perhaps, if the character was right and I had a good gut instinct, a Bollywood movie. And I'd love to direct. One day. I'm learning a lot on the set of 'The Good Wife.'
Yes - it's the same in any other work - the more you massage your thinking the more capable I believe you are of expanding how you go about things and learning.
There's no media training. In cooking school, there's not even manager training. You learn the fundamentals of cooking. Everything else is learning by doing.
Learning about issues such as sustainability and locavorism are things that you need to have as part of you as a chef because it will make you cook more delicious food.
In the end, my pursuit of the elusive New York State driver's license became about much more than a divorced woman's learning to drive for the first time.
I spent a little time in Germany as a schoolboy learning German, and it's a country I knew very well, spent a lot of time in. I knew the history very well. I've always wanted to do a piece of work about the post-war period, of one sort or another.
I had actually been on tour in Japan and I had my own world tour that I was doing. I was used to doing a show for an hour, so I was always learning choreography.
Someone taught me how to eat properly. Learning from others is important when it's not working for yourself.
It wasn't until after private lessons and learning bass lines that I even noticed bass in the music I was listening to at that age. My ears were blown wide open.
If I don't need the money, I don't work. I'm going to spend time with my family and friends, and I'm going to travel and read and listen to music and try to learn a little bit more about how to be a human being, as opposed to learning how to be somebody else.
I hope the cooks who are working for me now are getting that kind of experience so they can use what they're learning now as a foundation for a great career.
I can always see what I've done wrong. I'm always learning. I'm the perennial student.
It goes against the grain of modern education to teach students to program. What fun is there to making plans, acquiring discipline, organizing thoughts, devoting attention to detail, and learning to be self critical.
I can't talk about foreign policy like anyone who's spent their life reading and learning foreign policy. But as a citizen in a democracy, it's very important that I participate in that.
The lopsided attitudes of college professors pose a serious challenge to learning because students are so susceptible to becoming lopsided sheep.
It takes a long time to learn that a courtroom is the last place in the world for learning the truth.
The learning process continues until the day you die.
Every picture has been a learning opportunity for me.
A little learning is a dangerous thing, but a lot of ignorance is just as bad.
The best part of making the movies... learning from the pros themselves.
Learning about the way people process information and their emotions is hugely helpful to my work.
The failures and successes are necessary for learning.
That image of the countryside being a threatening place still exists. People continue to resist the challenge of learning about aspects of life they don't understand.
We're all like children. We may think we grow up, but to me, being grown up is death, stopping thinking, trying to find out things, going on learning.
Learning to shoot firearms to me is a little like driving stick - it seems like a decent skill to have.
I'm learning to hunt with rifles, because if you think about it, hunting gets you the healthiest meat - organic, free-range food. It's a totally yuppie spin on what I thought was kind of a redneck occupation.
Isn't one of your first exercises in learning how to communicate to write a description of how to tie your shoelaces? The point being that it's basically impossible to use text to show that.
Also, the more you're not focused on showbiz and instead focused on life, learning about other people, and keeping your eyes open and trying to be aware of the world.
Before, it was just about making the films - and now it's releasing them. Which is a steep learning curve.
The Company of Wolves is about how society teaches young women to look at themselves, and what to be afraid of. It's about a girl learning that the world of sensuality and the unknown is not to be feared, that it's worth getting your teeth into.
It's hard to be perfect, It really is. I keep learning things after I've already bungled it.
I think I've spent so much time playing characters that are so far away from me and learning how to technically build and how to technically put something on top of you.
I grew up listening to Jay-Z, and I think the first time I really became obsessed with learning and thinking about lyrics was when I started listening to rap I was 11, 12, and started becoming aware of music beyond the familiar.
I remember in the circus learning that the clown was the prince, the high prince. I always thought that the high prince was the lion or the magician, but the clown is the most important.
In this business, if you take too long, the landscape changes. So the opportunities that were there when I decided to take a break weren't there when I came back. It's like, 'Wait a second - what happened here?' It was a real learning experience. I've paid my dues, I will tell you that.
Architecture is a science arising out of many other sciences, and adorned with much and varied learning by the help of which a judgment is formed of those works which are the result of other arts.
Perhaps, to the uninformed, it may appear unaccountable that a man should be able to retain in his memory such a variety of learning but the close alliance with each other, of the different branches of science, will explain the difficulty.
Even though I was theatrically trained, learning to develop a character was an awesome experience.
That was the reasoning behind learning to play bass, and then after that it was more like it was neat to play songs together - for me to play bass and for him to play guitar.
I sat staring, staring, staring - half lost, learning a new language or rather the same language in a different dialect. So still were the big woods where I sat, sound might not yet have been born.
The willingness to keep learning is, I think, the most important thing about trying to be good at anything. You never want to stop learning.
Learning is any change in a system that produces a more or less permanent change in its capacity for adapting to its environment.
I'm developing a record company. I'm learning how to supervise music on a film.
I've never gone to acting school and I never will, so I'm learning about the business from the people who are in the business. It doesn't seem like I work at all. And the unknown is always exciting.
I enjoyed the administrative work because it involved working with Congress, city council, and the mayor. I had never been a politician so it was fun - learning political maneuvering.
People are learning to feel more comfortable hearing one another's dreams. It used to be that if you told a dream in public, someone had to make a joke to relieve the tension introduced by that alternative reality.
So there was something of a learning curve with doing your own thing and people seeing you outside of the band. I mean, people have never really heard my voice before - or heard a whole record of mine before. So it was a completely new experience.
Remaining vigilant toward this ever-present threat means constantly learning how better to protect ourselves. But primarily it reminds us that we must fight and win the war on terror, so that we do not have to fight it here in America.
That folk music led to learning to play, and making things up led to what turns out to be the most lucrative part of the music business - writing, because you get paid every time that song gets played.
I've grown a lot, and I'm learning every week.
Home schooled children frequently combine for many purposes - and they interact well. The growth of the home schooling movement means that more and more children are learning together, just not in a traditional classroom.
I'm social and I meet people and talk to people but I'm not looking for the ideal person to fit my mold and to raise my family with yet. I'm just kind of doing my thing and learning from the people I'm around and who I cross paths with.
I grew up in the southern United States in a city which at that time during the late '40's and early '50's was the most segregated city in the country, and in a sense learning how to oppose the status quo was a question of survival.
For me, the most difficult thing is that I am learning melodies on guitar from some songs whose melodies were not meant to be played on guitar. Ever. They were intended mostly for keyboards or melodic percussion.
There is a lot of learning I have to do and a lot of growing up I have to do.
I learned a lot from that first record and I learned a lot from my experiences touring, but really the biggest education I got over the past two years was learning the importance of arrangements.
In every character I play, I try to imbibe something. Every film is a learning process for me.
By learning about my body and making small, subtle changes, I find out what I enjoy and what is effective. I'm always finessing: adjusting my diet and my workouts. You have to figure out which exercises are fun and interesting and stimulate your brain - or else you'll never keep at them.
Yes, it is a rehearsed show, yes, it was analogy of going to see a play at the theatre, where everything has to be in place and whole things, everything being works, all works together to get the best effect you know it's more like an actor learning a part.
Information is a source of learning. But unless it is organized, processed, and available to the right people in a format for decision making, it is a burden, not a benefit.
And later I thought, I can't think how anyone can become a director without learning the craft of cinematography.
You only stop learning when you quit.
But by taking the time away, getting myself off the treadmill, and just slowing down and learning, I felt I had so much more to give back. And maybe that was something that needed to happen for all of us.
I've never stopped learning.
The world is the true classroom. The most rewarding and important type of learning is through experience, seeing something with our own eyes.
I worked hard learning harmony and theory when I was growing up in Chicago in the 1920s.
I learned what I need to do in the long jump, what I needed to do in the javelin and I've been able to rectify those events. It's been a bit of a learning curve, which is good.
I can look back at stuff I wrote in my early days and squirm at some of the mistakes I made. But we're all learning every day we never stop. I just hope people keep on liking what I do. That gives me such a kick.
But the basic Taoism that we are concerned with here is simply a particular way of appreciating, learning from, and working with whatever happens in everyday life.
Rich people without wisdom and learning are but sheep with golden fleeces.
Basketball, in America, is like a culture. It is like a foreigner learning a new language. It is difficult to learn foreign languages and it will also be difficult for me to learn the culture for basketball here.
Most organizations should be pro-active, but philanthropists concerned with poverty should deliberately be reactive, learning from the efforts of ordinary folks who tired of looking the other way as their communities fell apart.
I loved education, and, yes, I did want to go on learning.
I have two different categories of favorite films. One is the emotional favorites, which means these are generally films that I saw when I was a kid anything you see in your formative years is more powerful, because it really stays with you forever. The second category is films that I saw while I was learning the craft of motion pictures.
The fact is that the learning process goes on, and so long as the voices are not stilled and the singers go on singing some of it gets through.
Learning gives us a fuller conviction of the imperfections of our nature which one would think, might dispose us to modesty.
We have been learning since we were children how to make money, buy things, build things. The whole education system is set up to teach us how to think, not to feel.
I'm forever learning and that's why I'm always able to create new styles and new dimensions of hip-hop.
There is no such whetstone, to sharpen a good wit and encourage a will to learning, as is praise.
All mankind is now learning that these nuclear weapons can only serve to destroy, never become beneficial.
It's tempting to say the Ph.D. didn't have an effect, but it's not so. I think whatever resonance I may be able to achieve is in part simply from the amount of reading and learning that I acquired along the way.
I saw why people died and how they died. I saw gunshot wounds and liver failure. It was a good learning experience, so I came regularly on weekends and holidays.
Also, they don't understand - writing is language. The use of language. The language to create image, the language to create drama. It requires a skill of learning how to use language.
I think that obstacles lead to growth and ultimately, the most learning I've done in my life is between jobs.
Whatever the medium, there is the difficulty, challenge, fascination and often productive clumsiness of learning a new method: the wonderful puzzles and problems of translating with new materials.
That first year at Universal was a big blur and, naturally, I thought they were wasting me. I didn't realize at the time that I was learning my craft and acting more easily in front of the camera.
If this validates anything, it's that learning how to bunt and hit and run and turning two is more important than knowing where to find the little red light at the dug out camera.
My teachers helped guide and motivate me but the responsibility of learning was left with me, an approach to learning which was later reinforced by my experiences at Amherst.
Ignorance of what real learning is, and a consequent suspicion of it materialism, and a consequent intellectual laxity, both of these have done destructive work in the colleges.
Football management is such a pressurised thing - horseracing is a release. I'm also learning to play the piano - I'm quite determined - it's another release from the pressure of my job.
One of our key strategies has been to restructure traditional high schools into small learning communities with personalized attention and a range of options.
I've always had better luck learning things on my own. And I really love the challenge of doing it yourself and kind of being alone against the system.
A basic rule of life for reporters is that you should spend your time talking with and learning about people who are not sending you press releases, rather than those who are.
Learning how to fly, for me, was so euphoric.
You go on these Internet blogs and people say the meanest things. I'm a normal person. Just because I'm in the spotlight doesn't mean I'm God's gift to the world. I'm learning and making mistakes just like every other 17-year-old girl out there.
I spend so much time with the brightest and most talented and well-rounded people. I've had the privilege of having long and very intellectual conversations with people, and sometimes I just sit there and listen. It's like a better version of a class. Even though I'm not sitting at a desk and in school, I'm still learning all the time.
Hopefully with each thing that you do you're learning something, you're growing, and you're pushing yourself a little harder in some way or another. So I think you'd be in real trouble if each new thing that you create didn't feel like 'Oh, wow. I feel like I'm doing something a little different this time.'
You have to learn and keep learning.
The best part of learning any profession, when you're really going through those huge stretching escalated times of learning and energy, is when you want to do it so much.
Even though Raster Blaster was only a video game, I was learning about designing stuff. I got good at drawing.
Diligent as one must be in learning, one must be as diligent in forgetting otherwise the process is one of pedantry, not culture.
Concerning culture as a process, one would say that it means learning a great many things and then forgetting them and the forgetting is as necessary as the learning.
Learning has always been made much of, but forgetting has always been deprecated therefore pedantry has pretty well established itself throughout the modern world at the expense of culture.
Perhaps the prevalence of pedantry may be largely accounted for by the common error of thinking that, because useful knowledge should be remembered, any kind of knowledge that is at all worth learning should be remembered too.
There is a learning quality in all of our shows.
I felt that if there wasn't going to be a good opportunity, then I would just go back to second units which I love, keep working with great directors, keep learning and knowing that the opportunity would come when the time was right.
It's interesting to do other people's music - that's how I learned to play, by learning other people's songs. It's nice to delve into how other people got to where they are.
The hardest thing was learning to write. I was 13, and the only writing I had done was for Social Studies. It consisted of copying passages right out of the encyclopedia.
I'm most interested in working and learning from different people and telling good stories.
Since its founding in 1854, Penn State has proven to be a leading institution of higher learning.
We're learning as we go. We're a lot smarter this time. We understand what it takes to mobilize away from the threat of a hurricane.
It's not just about filming, you go to awards and interviews too. I enjoy all of it, even learning my lines!
I have six sisters, so I assumed I'd have a girl. Learning I was having a boy was really weird.
Learning something new is fun.
Doing a documentary is about discovering, being open, learning, and following curiosity.
I've been making sushi for 38 years, and I'm still learning. You have to consider the size and color of the ingredients, how much salt and vinegar to use and how the seasons affect the fattiness of the fish.
I grew up in a time when being a musician and learning to be a musician was actually very wonderful.
We have a lot of existing customers which are also considering Linux desktop migrations and rolling out some of these programs, so we're learning from them.
Well, immediately we announced yesterday or the day before we're building, with my foundation, a youth tennis and learning center in Austin. I'd like to be hands on with that and not see it periodically.
I didn't go to film school so my learning was done out in public and showed up on the screen.
I began learning the sportswriting business very early in life.
To the Kenyan families, school doesn't really matter because none of them are going on to college. Almost all of drop out of school and so, they're spending their time learning things that are important to them.
Be curious, learn and read as much as you can about food. Don't worry about making money. Focus on learning at various venues before you settle down for a steady position.
You made a lot of mistakes, and you wrote a lot of crap. But it was all part of the learning process.
Learning by doing, peer-to-peer teaching, and computer simulation are all part of the same equation.
The laptop brings back a more seamless kind of learning.
I had never picked up a basketball before. I went through a grueling audition process. It was almost as if I was learning to walk. It would be like teaching somebody to dance ballet for a role.
When I started learning the cello, I fell in love with the instrument because it seemed like a voice - my voice.
What I know about poker, you can fit into a thimble with room left over, but I'm learning.
I learned a lot from my Mom. My favorite lesson: remember there is no such thing as a certain way to parent and to remember that you are learning along with your child - it's ok to make mistakes.
I wouldn't change anything. I think that it's important to let things happen, and stay 'happened'. I think that's all part of the learning curve, part of fate. I'm just glad that it happened.
We cannot seek or attain health, wealth, learning, justice or kindness in general. Action is always specific, concrete, individualized, unique.
Probably having fallen in love with music and movies at a young age and then first learning about writing by kind of following the path of writers like Dave Marsh and Lester Bangs and being a rock journalist.
I enjoy learning technical details.
Some people are so busy learning the tricks of the trade that they never learn the trade.
Imitation is being rewarded. They're learning that if you fit right in the mold, you get rewarded. Music is no longer a form of expression - it's a means to a lifestyle.
Only the other world has substance and reality only good deeds and holy learning have tangible worth.
I am still learning every day not to watch other people's careers and compare.
Now learning a bit more about footballers I think what they need to do well, is someone who really wants to stay in the background and just be a strong support.
We must expect to fail... but fail in a learning posture, determined no to repeat the mistakes, and to maximize the benefits from what is learned in the process.
If we have a chance of succeeding and bringing stability and democracy to Iraq, it will mean learning from our mistakes, not denying them and not ignoring them.
I've heard that, but since I'm computer illiterate I don't know how it all works. But since I'm on Prodigy tonight, I'm learning a lot through my typist, Peter.
Most sailing ships take what they call trainees, who pay to be part of the crew. The Picton Castle takes people who are absolutely raw recruits. But you can't just ride along. You're learning to steer the ship, navigation you're pulling lines, keeping a lookout in the galley you're cooking.
I was training more learning how to scuba dive which I'd never done which was really, really, really cool.
Not being a comic book fan, being thrown into that and seeing the extreme - it's taken very seriously. So I tried to do as much learning as I could about it so I wasn't mean or anything.
You have to keep your sanity as well as know how to distance yourself from it while still holding onto the reins tightly. That is a very difficult thing to do, but I'm learning.
I had been impressed by the fact that biological systems were based on molecular machines and that we were learning to design and build these sorts of things.
We wanted to solve robot problems and needed some vision, action, reasoning, planning, and so forth. We even used some structural learning, such as was being explored by Patrick Winston.
I think Lenat is headed in the right direction, but someone needs to include a knowledge base about learning.
I hope I'm always learning something.
Part of the joy of music is listening to lots of different kinds of music and learning from it. Specifically for me, I like writing songs that move me, and what moves me are beautiful songs on the piano or the guitar and really, really heavy music.
Marriage, for a woman at least, hampers the two things that made life to me glorious - friendship and learning.
The relation of repetitions for learning and for repeating English stanzas needs no amplification. These were learned by heart on the first day with less than half of the repetitions necessary for the shortest of the syllable series.
Our country has had a hard time learning that lesson with energy.
Well, until this very day, I'm still learning.
You see, that is it with music, you never stop learning.
Learning how to work and learning how to fail is important.
I'm learning with the older that I get that some feelings are just universal and that I'm not the only one who hates their hair or their life at times.
I didn't have a regular school experience and wanted a more abstract way of learning. I started exploring in lots of different creative ways. It gave me the opportunity to travel and play music, so it was good for me.
Learning about all those different things psychologically - about grief and my own addictions and problems and stuff like that, and really getting an education on it, I think it was part of the process of it, learning about it and trying to lick it.
I am a candid interview and I have a dark and dry sense of humor - a very Canadian sense of humor and I am only learning now stupidly that you can't read tongue. When I say something funny in a newspaper and I meant it to be funny, it doesn't read that way.
I was delighted to have lines when they came - learning lines for film isn't a problem, but television is a little different, because we shot those shows the whole way through.
I had been here five years already, training very hard, learning about the systems, the shuttle, the station systems. But, everything really became real when I started to work with them.
Writing is learning to say nothing, more cleverly each day.
I spent a lot of years just learning my craft and falling down in front of the camera.
The experience of learning how to get straight to the core of a problem proved to be of immense value later when I had a long succession of responsibilities in large, complex government departments.
But the mechanics of learning to 'throw your voice' are pretty simple. Anyone with a tongue, an upper palate, teeth, and a normal speaking voice can learn ventriloquism.
What makes this story so remarkable is that throughout my early childhood I had ongoing learning difficulties, particularly in mathematics. I struggled to learn the multiplication table, and no matter how hard I tried, I simply couldn't remember 6 times 7 or 7 times 8.
And initially, a lot of companies avoid trying to make a really radical new kind of title for a new system, because that would involve learning a new machine and learning how to make the new title at the same time.
Studying literature at Harvard is like learning about women at the Mayo clinic.
I make personal appearances around the country. I'm starting a book tour now, and I may be coming to Toronto with the Learning Annex, which I'm doing all through the United States, so that may come up just before Christmas.
The day you stop learning and creating must be the most boring day.
All the learning in the world cannot replace instinct.
Violence is a problem we all want to solve. I want to make sure that kids learn to deal with anger by learning how to talk with people to solve problems. Here in the United States Senate I want to make sure we have safe schools, safe neighborhoods and good things for kids to do after school!
Just keep learning from the role and not just go for the money.
Think about how much it costs to incarcerate someone. Do we want them just sitting in prison, lifting weights, becoming violent and thinking about the next crime? Or do we want them having a little purpose in life and learning a skill?
I'm learning as I go. I don't know everything. I never had anybody to look at, nobody ever taught me, and where I'm from I didn't have any famous role models.
I looked at longevity in show business when I was about 13, and the people who seemed to have longevity were the ones who'd spent quite a bit of time learning about what they were doing before they made it.
Early on, it's good to develop the ability to write. Learning to write is a useful exercise, even if what you're writing about is not that relevant.
If it doesn't feel like a job and I'm learning something and getting that rush that I get, I don't care if it's behind a camera, on a TV set, or on the moon.
Travel provided many interesting experiences, but perhaps the most useful lesson I learned was that I really had no proficiency for learning the thousands of characters of the written Chinese language.
I love learning, and I think that curiosity is a wonderful gift.
I always loved the idea of learning martial arts, but it wasn't until I was in my 20s that I really started doing it and taking up karate.
Deliverance is about what I went through the first time. And I chalk it up as a learning experience.
Medieval learning was really advanced.
For 'So Cold the River,' I'm actually working on adapting the book with Scott Silver, who was just nominated for an Oscar for 'The Fighter,' and who also wrote '8 Mile,' which I think is a terrific screenplay. The chance to work with Scott is a tremendous pleasure and I'm learning a lot.
I think people should look at learning about Native American history the same as visiting Washington, D.C., and seeing the monuments there. It's all part of the package.
Particularly for English people, Shakespeare is always at the forefront of both drama and the English language. He's always been there. I can't remember starting school and not learning about him.
I discovered that in a story I could safely dream any dream, hope any hope, go anywhere I pleased any time I pleased, fight any foe, win or lose, live or die. My stories created a safe experimental learning place.
Anytime you ride against the best in the world, it becomes a learning process.
I'm learning to play by the rules. I sort of hate to think of it that way, but that's how it is. I'm really learning to function out there and in such a way that I don't need to drink.
I hardly teach. It's more like a gathering of minds looking at one subject and learning from each other. I enjoy the process.
People always ask me if I could live in any other era what would it be, and I tell them none! I feel so lucky to live in an age where technology has changed and continues to change and make life so much more exciting. It keeps everyone young and constantly learning new things.
This was our last stop. This was it. We had those two embryos that we had banked prior to learning about the breast cancer, and with the medicine she was on, this was our last effort. The prayers were answered.
Currently, I am overseeing the construction of the new Trump Tower in Chicago. I am involved in meeting with the construction crews, architects and sales teams. I am learning a lot and working with some of the best in the business.
The record business is dangerous to the health of bands and individuals, which is something I'm just now learning. But it's not dangerous in any of the ways people think it's not that they try to make you compromise your art. That's not the problem.
The problem for me is that I've never actually studied photography, so it's quite a steep learning curve. Cameras these days do so much for you automatically but I still think there's a point where you should actually know the technical side.
As a part of preparing those lawsuits, learning about those lawsuits, I learned about the various nuclear issues in parts of the nuclear production process I guess you'd say.
Even though I didn't get a business degree, I enjoyed learning about economics.
I'd go down to the end of my street, to a garage that had a certain feeling about it, or a particular light I'd take a picture of a friend who needed a head shot. That's how I learned, instead of having school assignments and learning camera techniques.
I took the process of doing as much myself as I could like a duck to water. I set up my own label and publishing, etc, and it was a fun learning curve two decades ago.
I think there's so much negative influence on children in school settings. It becomes learning by rote to pass a test. It's not contextualized.
Our learning ought to be our lives' amendment, and the fruits of our private study ought to appear in our public behavior.
I'm learning a lot about the culture of weight loss. I didn't know there were bloggers out there who were proud to be fat.
Learning how to learn is life's most important skill.
Advise for anybody - enjoy what you are doing, enjoy the process of learning and don't be impatient.
We learn more by looking for the answer to a question and not finding it than we do from learning the answer itself.
All those years we'd spent learning these chops, and all those gigs in Germany where you'd play all night, and along comes punk. It has nothing to do with that. A lot of people went out of business.
It's interesting when you've been a partner with someone for so long. So now to sing solo and starting all over again I am learning that I am more bodacious than I thought. I don't know where it's coming from but I am glad.
Well, I think that part of being young is not exactly knowing why you do some of the things that you do. And it's by exploring your life or experimenting or making mistakes and learning from them hopefully that you start to forge an identity.
I had an acting coach while I was doing the show and every week I could see my work improving. I really liked working on the show because I was learning new things every day.
You're always learning on different avenues and this is an opportunity for me to start on a fresh plate and start learning some other things that can really help me, that I need, and I want, to progress forward.
Children don't just play any more - they're far too busy learning to fence and taking extra French classes. In the end, you're actually doing more damage to your children by trying to hot-house them. It's far better to remain a calm parent.
I like working solo and it was a lot of fun joking around with the audience, saying things. I'm only just learning how to do certain things.
To summarize, the particular song a male sings, and the behavioral responses of females to song and morphological signals, are not genetically inherited in a fixed manner but are determined by learning early in life.
I think the biggest thing was that I was putting pressure on myself leading up to Beijing. Now I am learning how to take that pressure off and seeing this as an incredible opportunity, but not like, 'I absolutely have to medal.'
I don't think any other city in the world... the sun doesn't shine the same way anywhere as it does in New York. And then I guess everyone's very good at hanging out. Not in a crazy way, but you're just constantly interacting and learning.
I really believe that what happens one day affects the next, and I think that came from that experience of learning that if I told the score inning by inning, play by play, it built up to its natural climax.
Imagination is as vital to any advance in science as learning and precision are essential for starting points.
I think as an actor you're always learning, you're always trying to experience more things.
I think my books talk about kids learning to like and respect themselves and each other. You can't write a message book you just tell the best story you know how to tell.
There is only one thing more painful than learning from experience and that is not learning from experience.
The second half of the '60s really was a kind of learning period, in terms of writing, for me.
I'm now learning how to distinguish when I'm acting and when I'm not acting - offstage as well as onstage.
I feel like I'm just learning how to play the guitar. I mean, really learning to play the guitar.
As you get older, you're always maturing, you're always learning something new about yourself.
I think it's so important to keep learning and keep your brain active.
Learning how to get in tune with your field of energy and understand how to create your energy, expand that energy, and move that energy through your body. Coming back to your center, and approaching life from that center-to-line place... That to me gave me strength and understanding and hopefully wisdom to solve life's problems and challenges.
I wanted to translate from one flat surface to another. In fact, my learning disabilities controlled a lot of things. I don't recognize faces, so I'm sure it's what drove me to portraits in the first place.
Productivity is going to be a critical issue. And it's not just about getting more time for professors in the classroom. It involves reexamining the learning experience and restructuring faculty and the use of faculty time.
I tell students, 'If you are learning from YouTube I almost don't want to teach you because what you learn from YouTube it takes 10 times as long to unlearn.' They do an approximation of the centre of the note, an approximation of the interpretation, a cloned version.
I really believe I've been a good person. Not perfect - forget about perfect - but just learning by what I was taught and living by my own values. I might have stepped on a few ants - and a few other things as well - but I've never hurt anybody.
I love the work, I love being in front of the camera and working with actors and directors and creating something. For me, it's like learning everyday.
I think when you're learning an instrument, you are restricted because much of it is the noise of individual theory and your ability to play the instrument.
Of course, I'd like to produce and direct a blockbuster, but you gotta build up to that. So now I'm learning from a bunch of little movies. And it's more fun with smaller pictures. It's more creative.
In any of the arts, you never stop learning.
I got started when I was 3 years old because my father was a music teacher and my lessons were free. Instead of learning to walk, you learn to play the piano.
I'm learning something all the time. That's the way I want it to go, and that's the way I'll go until I am no longer on this planet.
Cops and robbers resemble each other, so there's not a lot to learn in terms of learning the logistics of committing the crime or investigating the crime.
I think jazz is a wonderful learning tool.
The top experts in the world are ardent students. The day you stop learning, you're definitely not an expert.
To make a kung fu film is like a dream come true, because I'm a big fan of kung fu movies and I'm learning kung fu for a long time.
I did learn Chinese kung-fu in a school for a short time, but I couldn't afford to pay for long-term learning.
I suppose I am a frustrated musician so I annoy my family by playing guitar in the house. I used to be into acoustic stuff but my son Joseph is learning drums, so now I have an electric guitar and we play Metallica. We have an amp and a PA in the garage with his drum kit.
I've done some TV and I've done a lot of theater, obviously, and the last character I played on Broadway was a very fast-talking broad. I'm used to learning material and words.
I was just learning to play guitar when Tracy Chapman came out. She wrote these songs, she played them by herself and I so admired her for that.
My number one goal was not getting 'A's' - and I proved it. I was a 'C' student. You have to be ready to learn. If you're not interesting in learning, it doesn't work. As I grew older and wanted to learn and desperately wanted inside information, learning was a lot easier.
The rite of passage of learning to build a fire that will burn all night with one match is not an insignificant one in my husband's family, and I grew up camping and backpacking. I love to camp.
I believe that every role that I have done this far has had quality and content. My roles have been very demanding and every role has been a challenge and a learning experience that has helped me mature as an actress.
But the important thing about learning to wait, I feel sure, is to know what you are waiting for.
I have had many occasions this year where I questioned and second-guessed my decision in a game, but it comes down to learning from mistakes and being accountable for what you did right or did wrong.
I think the biggest difficulty is that when I'm here in America, there's a necessity of using English, so I really have a great sense of really wanting to learn, but unfortunately when I head back to Japan, the necessity vanishes and so does my enthusiasm about learning.
I was fairly solitary. I didn't like structured learning. People didn't seem to be my cup of tea.
In addition to the research, I enjoyed learning French and assimilating the culture of another country.
In such an environment, I was able to study things that could be of immediate usefulness to the world. That learning experience undoubtedly served me well when I eventually entered the work force.
I am dumb when it comes to learning dance steps.
I count myself as one of millions of Americans whose life simply would not be the same without the libraries that supported my learning.
I'm not a very good painter, but I'm learning a lot.
The fundamentals of baseball haven't changed, but how we can teach those fundamentals has. With an e-book, learning can be more rewarding and fun.
Each experience I go through - marriage, my public life, my personal life - I'm learning as I go.
In the past, I had my idols but today I enjoy learning from all the soccer I watch.
I was 17 and just learning what high fidelity was, what good sound was, and learning the mechanics of tape machines. It was a real education, going right from the consumer end to the record factory.
My entire learning process is slow, because I have no visual memory.
I want to keep learning, keep exploring, keep doing more.
I'd love to be a saxophonist. I don't know why, but I pretend I'm the saxophonist when I listen to music. I have about as much chance playing the sax as I do learning how to fly.
Learning to drive is a scary thing for a parent. I had to basically lie to get the keys when I was a kid.
I think kids slowly begin to realize that what they're learning relates to other things they know. Then learning starts to get more and more exciting.
I'm still learning, and that's what life is about.
I only have one child. But I am learning that there is a lot to being a parent that you did not expect.
I always wanted to go to the Chavez school but I could never afford it when I was growing up so a lot of my learning came from magic books and watching other magicians. I was also very lucky that I had a couple of really good magic teachers.
Our libraries are valuable centers of education, learning and enrichment for people of all ages. In recent years, libraries have taken on an increasingly important role. today's libraries are about much more than books.
My one thing is I continue to be interested and want to be a student. I don't want to be a master. When I'm learning something, I'm in my element.
Today when I think about diversity, I actually think about the word 'inclusion.' And I think this is a time of great inclusion. It's not men, it's not women alone. Whether it's geographic, it's approach, it's your style, it's your way of learning, the way you want to contribute, it's your age - it is really broad.
I'm learning to embrace who I am and what I look like.
Art in the classroom not only spurs creativity, it also inspires learning.
Everything in life is a lesson and I have learned from each marriage. Yes, I've made mistakes but every experience is a learning curve.
I love learning about different dialects and I own all sorts of regional and time-period slang dictionaries. I often browse through relevant ones while writing a story. I also read a lot of diaries and oral histories.
We do a lot of shows for young people who have probably never been to the theater before and they are learning about the Holocaust, which unhappily, many of them do not know about.
If you feel your school is failing you, the question is why. Is it a lack of parental involvement, large classes, school violence, poor learning environment? Are there any standards to determine where problems are? Are there tutoring or mentoring programs? If the school is still failing after 3 years then what are your options?
People trust I know what I'm doing. I have lots of credibility. I've had years of learning. I know and understand my business.
I'm learning a lot how to be good at what I do and also how lucky I am and take it all in and be grateful for all this late in life success I've been having and it's good to have people that have been around and successful for awhile and work with them and see how they behave and it's why they are who they are and why they're still successful.
I enjoy the element of pushing yourself, learning something new, whether it's a dance step, a scene, an emotion.
The director's job is full of all sorts of annoyances and details - like how many cars are on the street. Ugh. I don't want it. I like my gig. And I feel that for the next 30 years or so I can keep learning more about it.
Learning starts with failure the first failure is the beginning of education.
I think I'd like to stay anchoring because, number one, I'm learning a lot, and I love it when I'm learning. And number two, I also have the luxury of a stable life.
I'd think learning to play the guitar would be very confusing for sighted people.
My daughter, the one who lives nearby, is raising her children to be very much aware. We went on a nature walk on Monday I'm learning so much from her.
I've just been learning how to direct my own videos, choreography, doing costumes... every creative opportunity there is with my music I've taken.
I spent many years trying to write a lot like Ben Folds or John Lennon or Rivers Cuomo. I think that's healthy when you're learning to write and seeing how chords fit together and how songs take shape.
In Britain, you do your job. When you do an American TV show, there is a sense of being one with the crew, and there is a leadership element, which was a learning curve for me because it is very different culturally. In Britain, you just do it, leave and say, 'Thanks.'
Learning lines is my biggest challenge.
Learning can take place in the backyard if there is a human being there who cares about the child. Before learning computers, children should learn to read first. They should sit around the dinner table and hear what their parents have to say and think.
Belief gets in the way of learning.
I love talking about women because they are a constant study and you're always learning.
Learning teacheth more in one year than experience in twenty.
Young children were sooner allured by love, than driven by beating, to attain good learning.
Let the master praise him, and say, 'Here ye do well.' For, I assure you, there is no such whetstone to sharpen a good wit, and encourage a will to learning, as is praise.
In mine opinion, love is fitter than fear, gentleness better than beating, to bring up a child rightly in learning.
Oprah was not somebody who was telling us what to do, she wasn't really teaching us like so many people we see today. With Oprah, she was learning and we were learning with her. And I think that's really was the seed that was planted for all of us to just hang in there with her.
Then as everything, like I say, things started to come together, when things started to go our way, that's when you results started to come. I was no different driver. I was certainly learning every time I went in the car.
When I have the time at home, I'll practice three or four hours a day. I have to. And I'm a late starter I started at age 17 and at age 51 I'm still learning.
I know it may seem surprising to people, but learning dialog that has a conversational flow to it is not that difficult.
But I think it's hard for me to only put out one record a year. Because I get too antsy. But it's good I'm learning to do that, because each record counts. And you should make it count.
Maybe our young people are not as vacuous as we would like to lead ourselves to believe - that all they're interested in is hairdos and looking at other beautiful people. Maybe they're interested in learning something.
In the United States, we spend millions of dollars on sports because it promotes teamwork, discipline, and the experience of learning to make great progress in small increments. Learning to play music does all this and more.
There are hurdles to overcome in sport and in life. Sport is a very valuable learning ground for how to live your life in the best possible way.
Melville brought to the task a sound knowledge of actual whaling, much curious learning in the literature of the subject, and, above all, an imagination which worked with great power upon the facts of his own experience.
After the United States entered the war, I joined the Naval Reserve and spent ninety days in a Columbia University dormitory learning to be a naval officer.
Diabetes is a disease that's had a deep impact on my family. My little brother has had type 1 diabetes since he was a baby and I have spent time learning about the disease and trying to bring attention to it so that one day soon we will reach a cure.
It was a fantastic learning experience and OK, I got slammed because I wasn't Audrey Hepburn but you could have predicted that, really, if you'd opened your eyes wide enough.
I want to direct, produce, and write, learning as I go.
An important aspect of the current situation is the strong social reaction against suggestions that the home language of African American children be used in the first steps of learning to read and write.
Everything is a learning experience.
I love learning new things that will never be put to practical use.
The Finland of the 21st century can thrive only if women of learning - in common with their male counterparts - are guaranteed the opportunity to use their creative potential to the full.
There's always a learning curve, where you've got to learn what your subject is all about.
I played saxophone, so I was into jazz. I learned from each audience and each teacher that I had. I can't really tell you any rules or anything, but the way I develop my beliefs is really just by personally learning from different situations.
Learning is what most adults will do for a living in the 21st century.
Obviously, I've been on sets before but nothing as big as 'Twilight.' You forget sometimes that you're on set of one of the biggest movies ever- so when you just sit back and think about it its just so incredible. It's such a great learning experience.
Everything starts and ends with the song, and working with writers and really learning their process and craft was an invaluable experience.
Students who are interested in learning about the environment should not be dissuaded from doing so, but only if they have proved their proficiency in other basic courses, such as U.S. history. Until then, we need to focus on producing well-educated citizens steeped in their country's history and mindful of their civic responsibilities.
Some kids don't know where they'll spend the night. How can we expect them to focus on learning?
Under these conditions it is not astonishing that learning was highly prized in fact, my parents made sacrifices to be able to give their children a good education.
I'm learning as much martial arts as I possibly can. My show is packed with action. Enough to get a rise.
The introduction of many minds into many fields of learning along a broad spectrum keeps alive questions about the accessibility, if not the unity, of knowledge.
The British system had requirements, including Latin. I'm not positive you ever had to know Greek, but there are certainly kinds of curricula where you had to know Greek too. I think in Britain there was the most mindless, repetitive sort of learning.
I avoid the media circus, keep my head down and try to keep growing and learning things.
Pop songs are not as graceful as they used to be. Performers today haven't gone through the regimen of learning how to write. And of course, everyone wants to own copyrights.
Growing up, my sisters and I would always talk stories. One of my frustrations was I didn't know anything about cameras. I didn't know how to make a film and I obviously didn't have a special effects budget. I was a kid. So I was learning to draw to get down the stuff that was in my head, that I couldn't afford to actually do.
I come from Montana, and in eastern Montana we have a lot of dirt between light bulbs. It is expensive trying to bring the new technologies to smaller schools to upgrade their technologies to take advantage of distance learning.
When I left Bradford and got a phone call from Dave Parnaby asking 'did I want to come back in?', I was delighted to accept. The whole buzz at the club at the moment is great for someone like me who is still learning and wanting to hopefully go into management in my own right at some point.
In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life: it goes on.
Do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment.
Throughout life people will make you mad, disrespect you and treat you bad. Let God deal with the things they do, cause hate in your heart will consume you too.
Life is a song - sing it. Life is a game - play it. Life is a challenge - meet it. Life is a dream - realize it. Life is a sacrifice - offer it. Life is love - enjoy it.
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.
When I stand before God at the end of my life, I would hope that I would not have a single bit of talent left, and could say, 'I used everything you gave me'.
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life define yourself.
Believe that life is worth living and your belief will help create the fact.
Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.
I still find each day too short for all the thoughts I want to think, all the walks I want to take, all the books I want to read, and all the friends I want to see.
You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.
All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.
Life is a dream for the wise, a game for the fool, a comedy for the rich, a tragedy for the poor.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.
How far you go in life depends on your being tender with the young, compassionate with the aged, sympathetic with the striving and tolerant of the weak and strong. Because someday in your life you will have been all of these.
The truth is you don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. Life is a crazy ride, and nothing is guaranteed.
Open your eyes, look within. Are you satisfied with the life you're living?
Life is what happens while you are busy making other plans.
Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.
Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them - that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.
My formula for living is quite simple. I get up in the morning and I go to bed at night. In between, I occupy myself as best I can.
Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile.
I have a simple philosophy: Fill what's empty. Empty what's full. Scratch where it itches.
Any idiot can face a crisis - it's day to day living that wears you out.
The most important thing is to enjoy your life - to be happy - it's all that matters.
We must let go of the life we have planned, so as to accept the one that is waiting for us.
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more it is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.
I arise in the morning torn between a desire to improve the world and a desire to enjoy the world. This makes it hard to plan the day.
Change your life today. Don't gamble on the future, act now, without delay.
Every man dies. Not every man really lives.
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.
If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.
A man sooner or later discovers that he is the master-gardener of his soul, the director of his life.
All the art of living lies in a fine mingling of letting go and holding on.
Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.
Our life always expresses the result of our dominant thoughts.
We need to give each other the space to grow, to be ourselves, to exercise our diversity. We need to give each other space so that we may both give and receive such beautiful things as ideas, openness, dignity, joy, healing, and inclusion.
He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.
A baby is God's opinion that life should go on.
To live a pure unselfish life, one must count nothing as one's own in the midst of abundance.
Remember when life's path is steep to keep your mind even.
Life is like dancing. If we have a big floor, many people will dance. Some will get angry when the rhythm changes. But life is changing all the time.
When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained.
Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.
We must be willing to let go of the life we have planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us.
The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it.
Don't go through life, grow through life.
Life is 10 percent what you make it, and 90 percent how you take it.
The privilege of a lifetime is being who you are.
It is not length of life, but depth of life.
Every creature is better alive than dead, men and moose and pine trees, and he who understands it aright will rather preserve its life than destroy it.
Don't let life discourage you everyone who got where he is had to begin where he was.
Here is the test to find whether your mission on Earth is finished: if you're alive, it isn't.
I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and saw that life was service. I acted and behold, service was joy.
A person will sometimes devote all his life to the development of one part of his body - the wishbone.
There are three constants in life... change, choice and principles.
It's all about quality of life and finding a happy balance between work and friends and family.
Life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced.
My life is my message.
The true secret of happiness lies in taking a genuine interest in all the details of daily life.
I love those who yearn for the impossible.
I love life because what more is there?
I don't believe people are looking for the meaning of life as much as they are looking for the experience of being alive.
Life consists not in holding good cards but in playing those you hold well.
Life loves the liver of it.
Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.
Once you say you're going to settle for second, that's what happens to you in life.
Life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about.
The courage of life is often a less dramatic spectacle than the courage of a final moment but it is no less a magnificent mixture of triumph and tragedy.
I do not regret one moment of my life.
Our life is what our thoughts make it.
Beware the barrenness of a busy life.
The shoe that fits one person pinches another there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.
Everything has been figured out, except how to live.
The only disability in life is a bad attitude.
If life were predictable it would cease to be life, and be without flavor.
Who will tell whether one happy moment of love or the joy of breathing or walking on a bright morning and smelling the fresh air, is not worth all the suffering and effort which life implies.
When life is too easy for us, we must beware or we may not be ready to meet the blows which sooner or later come to everyone, rich or poor.
I think I've discovered the secret of life - you just hang around until you get used to it.
What we think determines what happens to us, so if we want to change our lives, we need to stretch our minds.
Doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.
Everything in life is luck.
Use your health, even to the point of wearing it out. That is what it is for. Spend all you have before you die do not outlive yourself.
Life is a series of collisions with the future it is not the sum of what we have been, but what we yearn to be.
With the past, I have nothing to do nor with the future. I live now.
The story of life is quicker then the blink of an eye, the story of love is hello, goodbye.
Most people have never learned that one of the main aims in life is to enjoy it.
The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously, drunkenly, serenely, divinely aware.
Life consists in what a man is thinking of all day.
Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued.
Life becomes harder for us when we live for others, but it also becomes richer and happier.
A life is not important except in the impact it has on other lives.
I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.
May you live all the days of your life.
A healthful hunger for a great idea is the beauty and blessedness of life.
Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.
To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts.
Life is a tragedy when seen in close-up, but a comedy in long-shot.
The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing.
Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life.
Look, I don't want to wax philosophic, but I will say that if you're alive you've got to flap your arms and legs, you've got to jump around a lot, for life is the very opposite of death, and therefore you must at very least think noisy and colorfully, or you're not alive.
When I hear somebody sigh, 'Life is hard,' I am always tempted to ask, 'Compared to what?'
People living deeply have no fear of death.
A well-spent day brings happy sleep.
Fortunately analysis is not the only way to resolve inner conflicts. Life itself still remains a very effective therapist.
Life in abundance comes only through great love.
The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering his attitudes.
What is important in life is life, and not the result of life.
You have succeeded in life when all you really want is only what you really need.
An aim in life is the only fortune worth finding.
I look back on my life like a good day's work, it was done and I am satisfied with it.
While there's life, there's hope.
Get correct views of life, and learn to see the world in its true light. It will enable you to live pleasantly, to do good, and, when summoned away, to leave without regret.
Life is a long lesson in humility.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
Life must be lived as play.
Maybe all one can do is hope to end up with the right regrets.
There is only one difference between a long life and a good dinner: that, in the dinner, the sweets come last.
One way to get the most out of life is to look upon it as an adventure.
Kindness, I've discovered, is everything in life.
Unbeing dead isn't being alive.
To change ones life: Start immediately. Do it flamboyantly.
Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity, or registering wrongs.
This life is worth living, we can say, since it is what we make it.
Life is pleasant. Death is peaceful. It's the transition that's troublesome.
The purpose of life is a life of purpose.
We are all here for a spell, get all the good laughs you can.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
The great use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it.
Our business in life is not to succeed, but to continue to fail in good spirits.
The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.
While we are postponing, life speeds by.
There is just one life for each of us: our own.
The basic fact about human existence is not that it is a tragedy, but that it is a bore. It is not so much a war as an endless standing in line.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link, and life is after all a chain.
Life is never easy for those who dream.
Life is too short to work so hard.
The chief danger in life is that you may take too many precautions.
We are here to add what we can to life, not to get what we can from life.
For the happiest life, days should be rigorously planned, nights left open to chance.
Life well spent is long.
If you live long enough, you'll make mistakes. But if you learn from them, you'll be a better person. It's how you handle adversity, not how it affects you. The main thing is never quit, never quit, never quit.
Life is something to do when you can't get to sleep.
Life isn't a matter of milestones, but of moments.
We can't plan life. All we can do is be available for it.
Life will always be to a large extent what we ourselves make it.
Life is wasted on the living.
Life has meaning only if one barters it day by day for something other than itself.
The art of life is to know how to enjoy a little and to endure very much.
The most exhausting thing in life is being insincere.
The main facts in human life are five: birth, food, sleep, love and death.
Life is a succession of moments, to live each one is to succeed.
There is no wealth but life.
Life is largely a matter of expectation.
Give me the luxuries of life and I will willingly do without the necessities.
The indispensable first step to getting the things you want out of life is this: decide what you want.
I take a simple view of life. It is keep your eyes open and get on with it.
Seventy percent of success in life is showing up.
Life is not an exact science, it is an art.
Every man regards his own life as the New Year's Eve of time.
To live is so startling it leaves little time for anything else.
What a wonderful life I've had! I only wish I'd realized it sooner.
Life is like a trumpet - if you don't put anything into it, you don't get anything out of it.
I take care of my flowers and my cats. And enjoy food. And that's living.
No man is a failure who is enjoying life.
The man who has no inner-life is a slave to his surroundings.
Wrong life cannot be lived rightly.
Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insufficient premises.
Life is anything that dies when you stomp on it.
My life is every moment of my life. It is not a culmination of the past.
Life is a moderately good play with a badly written third act.
To me, if life boils down to one thing, it's movement. To live is to keep moving.
I did not direct my life. I didn't design it. I never made decisions. Things always came up and made them for me. That's what life is.
Human life is as evanescent as the morning dew or a flash of lightning.
To live is to change, and to be perfect is to have changed often.
Our entire life - consists ultimately in accepting ourselves as we are.
To know nothing is the happiest life.
To be free is to have achieved your life.
Variety's the very spice of life, That gives it all its flavor.
You don't have to be the Dalai Lama to tell people that life's about change.
Life is but thought.
Life itself is the proper binge.
The whole secret of life is to be interested in one thing profoundly and in a thousand things well.
Wars and elections are both too big and too small to matter in the long run. The daily work - that goes on, it adds up.
Life is a culmination of the past, an awareness of the present, an indication of a future beyond knowledge, the quality that gives a touch of divinity to matter.
The less routine the more life.
Life is much shorter than I imagined it to be.
Life ought to be a struggle of desire toward adventures whose nobility will fertilize the soul.
The Indian Summer of life should be a little sunny and a little sad, like the season, and infinite in wealth and depth of tone, but never hustled.
Any life is made up of a single moment, the moment in which a man finds out, once and for all, who he is.
What we play is life.
Life is a great sunrise. I do not see why death should not be an even greater one.
Life is made up of sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles predominating.
Not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious.
The fear of life is the favorite disease of the 20th century.
Life has a higher end, than to be amused.
The person lives twice who lives the first life well.
Unrest of spirit is a mark of life.
Life itself still remains a very effective therapist.
Life is a lot like jazz... it's best when you improvise.
I have inspiration and feelings of being alive most every day I live.
I had no blood relatives till I made some.
Keep love in your heart. A life without it is like a sunless garden when the flowers are dead.
I believe that if life gives you lemons, you should make lemonade... And try to find somebody whose life has given them vodka, and have a party.
Where there is love there is life.
Life is one big road with lots of signs. So when you riding through the ruts, don't complicate your mind. Flee from hate, mischief and jealousy. Don't bury your thoughts, put your vision to reality. Wake Up and Live!
I've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. I've lost almost 300 games. 26 times, I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I've failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.
If you don't design your own life plan, chances are you'll fall into someone else's plan. And guess what they have planned for you? Not much.
Thousands of candles can be lighted from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.
I hated every minute of training, but I said, 'Don't quit. Suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion.'
In everyone's life, at some time, our inner fire goes out. It is then burst into flame by an encounter with another human being. We should all be thankful for those people who rekindle the inner spirit.
You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.
Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive.
Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life - think of it, dream of it, live on that idea. Let the brain, muscles, nerves, every part of your body, be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea alone. This is the way to success.
Our prime purpose in this life is to help others. And if you can't help them, at least don't hurt them.
Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.
Choosing to be positive and having a grateful attitude is going to determine how you're going to live your life.
I've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why I succeed.
Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.
Life can only be understood backwards but it must be lived forwards.
My mother was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I received from her.
Character develops itself in the stream of life.
For the past 33 years, I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: 'If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?' And whenever the answer has been 'No' for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.
I would rather live my life as if there is a God and die to find out there isn't, than live my life as if there isn't and die to find out there is.
But friendship is precious, not only in the shade, but in the sunshine of life, and thanks to a benevolent arrangement the greater part of life is sunshine.
Life is a mirror and will reflect back to the thinker what he thinks into it.
I like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. Fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living, it's a way of looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope. Which is what I do, and that enables you to laugh at life's realities.
Every moment and every event of every man's life on earth plants something in his soul.
Life's most persistent and urgent question is, 'What are you doing for others?'
Imagine all the people living life in peace. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will be as one.
Life has its own hidden forces which you can only discover by living.
Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.
Whatever your life's work is, do it well. A man should do his job so well that the living, the dead, and the unborn could do it no better.
Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.
Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens.
Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They came through you but not from you and though they are with you yet they belong not to you.
Even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happy would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness. It is far better take things as they come along with patience and equanimity.
All changes, even the most longed for, have their melancholy for what we leave behind us is a part of ourselves we must die to one life before we can enter another.
All life demands struggle. Those who have everything given to them become lazy, selfish, and insensitive to the real values of life. The very striving and hard work that we so constantly try to avoid is the major building block in the person we are today.
If you can dream it, then you can achieve it. You will get all you want in life if you help enough other people get what they want.
No government ever voluntarily reduces itself in size. Government programs, once launched, never disappear. Actually, a government bureau is the nearest thing to eternal life we'll ever see on this earth!
I cannot even imagine where I would be today were it not for that handful of friends who have given me a heart full of joy. Let's face it, friends make life a lot more fun.
To be idle is a short road to death and to be diligent is a way of life foolish people are idle, wise people are diligent.
Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life's coming attractions.
I'm not going to change the way I look or the way I feel to conform to anything. I've always been a freak. So I've been a freak all my life and I have to live with that, you know. I'm one of those people.
God gave us the gift of life it is up to us to give ourselves the gift of living well.
Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a spiritual life.
Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome.
Love is our true destiny. We do not find the meaning of life by ourselves alone - we find it with another.
Learn to enjoy every minute of your life. Be happy now. Don't wait for something outside of yourself to make you happy in the future. Think how really precious is the time you have to spend, whether it's at work or with your family. Every minute should be enjoyed and savored.
If you always put limit on everything you do, physical or anything else. It will spread into your work and into your life. There are no limits. There are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them.
Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough, and more. It turns denial into acceptance, chaos to order, confusion to clarity. It can turn a meal into a feast, a house into a home, a stranger into a friend.
Bad things do happen how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have - life itself.
The devil has put a penalty on all things we enjoy in life. Either we suffer in health or we suffer in soul or we get fat.
Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything.
Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something - your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.
Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young.
When you rise in the morning, give thanks for the light, for your life, for your strength. Give thanks for your food and for the joy of living. If you see no reason to give thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.
The quality, not the longevity, of one's life is what is important.
Without music, life would be a mistake.
I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for everyone, best both for the body and the mind.
People fear death even more than pain. It's strange that they fear death. Life hurts a lot more than death. At the point of death, the pain is over. Yeah, I guess it is a friend.
Just as treasures are uncovered from the earth, so virtue appears from good deeds, and wisdom appears from a pure and peaceful mind. To walk safely through the maze of human life, one needs the light of wisdom and the guidance of virtue.
Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.
I remember my mother's prayers and they have always followed me. They have clung to me all my life.
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both hands you need to be able to throw something back.
Of life's two chief prizes, beauty and truth, I found the first in a loving heart and the second in a laborer's hand.
You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and its good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.
The monotony and solitude of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind.
Without deep reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people.
I love being married. It's so great to find that one special person you want to annoy for the rest of your life.
Property is intended to serve life, and no matter how much we surround it with rights and respect, it has no personal being. It is part of the earth man walks on. It is not man.
It's the game of life. Do I win or do I lose? One day they're gonna shut the game down. I gotta have as much fun and go around the board as many times as I can before it's my turn to leave.
Love is life. And if you miss love, you miss life.
The best thing to hold onto in life is each other.
There is nothing more tragic than to find an individual bogged down in the length of life, devoid of breadth.
The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.
We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.
The only real failure in life is not to be true to the best one knows.
Today, more than ever before, life must be characterized by a sense of Universal responsibility, not only nation to nation and human to human, but also human to other forms of life.
Without health life is not life it is only a state of langour and suffering - an image of death.
He who is not courageous enough to take risks will accomplish nothing in life.
When I was young I thought that money was the most important thing in life now that I am old I know that it is.
Beginning today, treat everyone you meet as if they were going to be dead by midnight. Extend to them all the care, kindness and understanding you can muster, and do it with no thought of any reward. Your life will never be the same again.
The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.
In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with success unexpected in common hours.
Learning to trust is one of life's most difficult tasks.
Achievement of your happiness is the only moral purpose of your life, and that happiness, not pain or mindless self-indulgence, is the proof of your moral integrity, since it is the proof and the result of your loyalty to the achievement of your values.
The things that will destroy America are prosperity-at-any-price, peace-at-any-price, safety-first instead of duty-first, the love of soft living, and the get-rich-quick theory of life.
Trust yourself. Create the kind of self that you will be happy to live with all your life. Make the most of yourself by fanning the tiny, inner sparks of possibility into flames of achievement.
Don't Make Assumptions. Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.
Life is tough, but it's tougher when you're stupid.
A man who views the world the same at fifty as he did at twenty has wasted thirty years of his life.
Life's Tragedy is that we get old to soon and wise too late.
Focusing your life solely on making a buck shows a certain poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. Because it's only when you hitch your wagon to something larger than yourself that you realize your true potential.
You can't connect the dots looking forward you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something - your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.
All the adversity I've had in my life, all my troubles and obstacles, have strengthened me... You may not realize it when it happens, but a kick in the teeth may be the best thing in the world for you.
All my life I have tried to pluck a thistle and plant a flower wherever the flower would grow in thought and mind.
We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.
An armed society is a polite society. Manners are good when one may have to back up his acts with his life.
I love sleep. My life has the tendency to fall apart when I'm awake, you know?
The best years of your life are the ones in which you decide your problems are your own. You do not blame them on your mother, the ecology, or the president. You realize that you control your own destiny.
Tomorrow is the most important thing in life. Comes into us at midnight very clean. It's perfect when it arrives and it puts itself in our hands. It hopes we've learned something from yesterday.
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
And this, our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen.
We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. Omitted, all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat. And we must take the current when it serves, or lose our ventures.
The bond that links your true family is not one of blood, but of respect and joy in each other's life.
So long as the memory of certain beloved friends lives in my heart, I shall say that life is good.
Today I choose life. Every morning when I wake up I can choose joy, happiness, negativity, pain... To feel the freedom that comes from being able to continue to make mistakes and choices - today I choose to feel life, not to deny my humanity but embrace it.
To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence.
You can have everything in life you want, if you will just help other people get what they want.
Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit.
My life has been one great big joke, a dance that's walked a song that's spoke, I laugh so hard I almost choke when I think about myself.
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it.
There is only one thing in life worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.
Through humor, you can soften some of the worst blows that life delivers. And once you find laughter, no matter how painful your situation might be, you can survive it.
The secret of success is learning how to use pain and pleasure instead of having pain and pleasure use you. If you do that, you're in control of your life. If you don't, life controls you.
All my life, my heart has yearned for a thing I cannot name.
If the only prayer you ever say in your entire life is thank you, it will be enough.
There are only two tragedies in life: one is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.
The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.
What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself.
Those who educate children well are more to be honored than they who produce them for these only gave them life, those the art of living well.
Life is full of beauty. Notice it. Notice the bumble bee, the small child, and the smiling faces. Smell the rain, and feel the wind. Live your life to the fullest potential, and fight for your dreams.
The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts: therefore, guard accordingly, and take care that you entertain no notions unsuitable to virtue and reasonable nature.
In our daily life, we encounter people who are angry, deceitful, intent only on satisfying their own needs. There is so much anger, distrust, greed, and pettiness that we are losing our capacity to work well together.
To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.
Our life of poverty is as necessary as the work itself. Only in heaven will we see how much we owe to the poor for helping us to love God better because of them.
Make it a habit to tell people thank you. To express your appreciation, sincerely and without the expectation of anything in return. Truly appreciate those around you, and you'll soon find many others around you. Truly appreciate life, and you'll find that you have more of it.
Each person must live their life as a model for others.
I believe that being successful means having a balance of success stories across the many areas of your life. You can't truly be considered successful in your business life if your home life is in shambles.
True wisdom comes to each of us when we realize how little we understand about life, ourselves, and the world around us.
There are four questions of value in life... What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same. Only love.
Money isn't the most important thing in life, but it's reasonably close to oxygen on the 'gotta have it' scale.
I'm the one that has to die when it's time for me to die, so let me live my life, the way I want to.
I decided, very early on, just to accept life unconditionally I never expected it to do anything special for me, yet I seemed to accomplish far more than I had ever hoped. Most of the time it just happened to me without my ever seeking it.
Life is a gamble. You can get hurt, but people die in plane crashes, lose their arms and legs in car accidents people die every day. Same with fighters: some die, some get hurt, some go on. You just don't let yourself believe it will happen to you.
I don't believe in guilt, I believe in living on impulse as long as you never intentionally hurt another person, and don't judge people in your life. I think you should live completely free.
You change your life by changing your heart.
Probably the happiest period in life most frequently is in middle age, when the eager passions of youth are cooled, and the infirmities of age not yet begun as we see that the shadows, which are at morning and evening so large, almost entirely disappear at midday.
I never thought of losing, but now that it' s happened, the only thing is to do it right. That's my obligation to all the people who believe in me. We all have to take defeats in life.
Life stands before me like an eternal spring with new and brilliant clothes.
Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.
True friendship multiplies the good in life and divides its evils. Strive to have friends, for life without friends is like life on a desert island... to find one real friend in a lifetime is good fortune to keep him is a blessing.
The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object of good government.
The key to immortality is first living a life worth remembering.
My rule of life prescribed as an absolutely sacred rite smoking cigars and also the drinking of alcohol before, after and if need be during all meals and in the intervals between them.
Even when a person has all of life's comforts - good food, good shelter, a companion - he or she can still become unhappy when encountering a tragic situation.
March on. Do not tarry. To go forward is to move toward perfection. March on, and fear not the thorns, or the sharp stones on life's path.
You can never really live anyone else's life, not even your child's. The influence you exert is through your own life, and what you've become yourself.
The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls.
The important thing is that men should have a purpose in life. It should be something useful, something good.
As you walk down the fairway of life you must smell the roses, for you only get to play one round.
Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another.
If you ask me what I came into this life to do, I will tell you: I came to live out loud.
Part of the secret of a success in life is to eat what you like and let the food fight it out inside.
There's no tragedy in life like the death of a child. Things never get back to the way they were.
Some of the worst mistakes of my life have been haircuts.
Before success comes in any man's life, he's sure to meet with much temporary defeat and, perhaps some failures. When defeat overtakes a man, the easiest and the most logical thing to do is to quit. That's exactly what the majority of men do.
You can change your world by changing your words... Remember, death and life are in the power of the tongue.
Have the courage to say no. Have the courage to face the truth. Do the right thing because it is right. These are the magic keys to living your life with integrity.
Life is as tedious as twice-told tale, vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.
A sense of humor... is needed armor. Joy in one's heart and some laughter on one's lips is a sign that the person down deep has a pretty good grasp of life.
The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time.
Far and away the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.
There is no end to education. It is not that you read a book, pass an examination, and finish with education. The whole of life, from the moment you are born to the moment you die, is a process of learning.
Nothing is perfect. Life is messy. Relationships are complex. Outcomes are uncertain. People are irrational.
A nation which has forgotten the quality of courage which in the past has been brought to public life is not as likely to insist upon or regard that quality in its chosen leaders today - and in fact we have forgotten.
Life is not easy for any of us. But what of that? We must have perseverance and above all confidence in ourselves. We must believe that we are gifted for something and that this thing must be attained.
There is no passion to be found playing small - in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living.
Literature adds to reality, it does not simply describe it. It enriches the necessary competencies that daily life requires and provides and in this respect, it irrigates the deserts that our lives have already become.
If you have no confidence in self, you are twice defeated in the race of life.
In the course of my life, I have often had to eat my words, and I must confess that I have always found it a wholesome diet.
Once I knew only darkness and stillness... my life was without past or future... but a little word from the fingers of another fell into my hand that clutched at emptiness, and my heart leaped to the rapture of living.
I am convinced that material things can contribute a lot to making one's life pleasant, but, basically, if you do not have very good friends and relatives who matter to you, life will be really empty and sad and material things cease to be important.
Nothing in life is so exhilarating as to be shot at without result.
Football is like life - it requires perseverance, self-denial, hard work, sacrifice, dedication and respect for authority.
For time and the world do not stand still. Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future.
Life is either a great adventure or nothing.
Stop acting as if life is a rehearsal. Live this day as if it were your last. The past is over and gone. The future is not guaranteed.
Once in his life, every man is entitled to fall madly in love with a gorgeous redhead.
Time is the coin of your life. It is the only coin you have, and only you can determine how it will be spent. Be careful lest you let other people spend it for you.
In war as in life, it is often necessary when some cherished scheme has failed, to take up the best alternative open, and if so, it is folly not to work for it with all your might.
Books constitute capital. A library book lasts as long as a house, for hundreds of years. It is not, then, an article of mere consumption but fairly of capital, and often in the case of professional men, setting out in life, it is their only capital.
The Christian life is not a constant high. I have my moments of deep discouragement. I have to go to God in prayer with tears in my eyes, and say, 'O God, forgive me,' or 'Help me.'
The ultimate value of life depends upon awareness and the power of contemplation rather than upon mere survival.
I guess I have always been deeply terrified to really be someone's wife since I know from life one cannot love another, ever, really.
Life is never fair, and perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not.
People grow through experience if they meet life honestly and courageously. This is how character is built.
Without pain, there would be no suffering, without suffering we would never learn from our mistakes. To make it right, pain and suffering is the key to all windows, without it, there is no way of life.
If you are not too long, I will wait here for you all my life.
Constant development is the law of life, and a man who always tries to maintain his dogmas in order to appear consistent drives himself into a false position.
Life is hard it's harder if you're stupid.
Let everyone try and find that as a result of daily prayer he adds something new to his life, something with which nothing can be compared.
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new.
It takes a lot of courage to release the familiar and seemingly secure, to embrace the new. But there is no real security in what is no longer meaningful. There is more security in the adventurous and exciting, for in movement there is life, and in change there is power.
Truth is a deep kindness that teaches us to be content in our everyday life and share with the people the same happiness.
Holding on to anger, resentment and hurt only gives you tense muscles, a headache and a sore jaw from clenching your teeth. Forgiveness gives you back the laughter and the lightness in your life.
Life is a process of becoming, a combination of states we have to go through. Where people fail is that they wish to elect a state and remain in it. This is a kind of death.
Life is a series of experiences, each one of which makes us bigger, even though sometimes it is hard to realize this. For the world was built to develop character, and we must learn that the setbacks and grieves which we endure help us in our marching onward.
There is a very fine line between loving life and being greedy for it.
Life is one grand, sweet song, so start the music.
When we do the best that we can, we never know what miracle is wrought in our life, or in the life of another.
At fifteen life had taught me undeniably that surrender, in its place, was as honorable as resistance, especially if one had no choice.
One of the things I learned the hard way was that it doesn't pay to get discouraged. Keeping busy and making optimism a way of life can restore your faith in yourself.
As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler solitude will not be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, nor weakness weakness.
Life loves to be taken by the lapel and told: 'I'm with you kid. Let's go.'
There are only three things women need in life: food, water, and compliments.
Life is an exciting business, and most exciting when it is lived for others.
I'm not claiming divinity. I've never claimed purity of soul. I've never claimed to have the answers to life. I only put out songs and answer questions as honestly as I can... But I still believe in peace, love and understanding.
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are two things. There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
Each player must accept the cards life deals him or her: but once they are in hand, he or she alone must decide how to play the cards in order to win the game.
We have one life it soon will be past what we do for God is all that will last.
Life is hard. After all, it kills you.
My philosophy of life is that if we make up our mind what we are going to make of our lives, then work hard toward that goal, we never lose - somehow we win out.
My favorite things in life don't cost any money. It's really clear that the most precious resource we all have is time.
A chief event of life is the day in which we have encountered a mind that startled us.
To deprive a man of his natural liberty and to deny to him the ordinary amenities of life is worse then starving the body it is starvation of the soul, the dweller in the body.
It was once said that the moral test of government is how that government treats those who are in the dawn of life, the children those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly and those who are in the shadows of life, the sick, the needy and the handicapped.
My family, frankly, they weren't folks who went to church every week. My mother was one of the most spiritual people I knew but she didn't raise me in the church, so I came to my Christian faith later in life and it was because the precepts of Jesus Christ spoke to me in terms of the kind of life that I would want to lead.
Learn to get in touch with the silence within yourself, and know that everything in life has purpose. There are no mistakes, no coincidences, all events are blessings given to us to learn from.
One reason so few of us achieve what we truly want is that we never direct our focus we never concentrate our power. Most people dabble their way through life, never deciding to master anything in particular.
The main purpose of life is to live rightly, think rightly, act rightly. The soul must languish when we give all our thought to the body.
At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a friend, a child, or a parent.
Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life.
Say there's a white kid who lives in a nice home, goes to an all-white school, and is pretty much having everything handed to him on a platter - for him to pick up a rap tape is incredible to me, because what that's saying is that he's living a fantasy life of rebellion.
I have spent many years of my life in opposition, and I rather like the role.
Freedom is never dear at any price. It is the breath of life. What would a man not pay for living?
Life every man holds dear but the dear man holds honor far more precious dear than life.
Alcohol is the anesthesia by which we endure the operation of life.
We have the duty to protect the life of an unborn child.
The greatest thing in family life is to take a hint when a hint is intended-and not to take a hint when a hint isn't intended.
You will find as you look back upon your life that the moments when you have truly lived are the moments when you have done things in the spirit of love.
Religion is more than life. Remember that his own religion is the truest to every man even if it stands low in the scales of philosophical comparison.
Very little is needed to make a happy life it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking.
The great danger for family life, in the midst of any society whose idols are pleasure, comfort and independence, lies in the fact that people close their hearts and become selfish.
There is more to life than increasing its speed.
Fathers should be neither seen nor heard. That is the only proper basis for family life.
The world has grown suspicious of anything that looks like a happily married life.
I put all my genius into my life I put only my talent into my works.
There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathise with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life's sores the better.
I know in my heart that man is good. That what is right will always eventually triumph. And there's purpose and worth to each and every life.
Purity of personal life is the one indispensable condition for building up a sound education.
But what is happiness except the simple harmony between a man and the life he leads?
The man who views the world at 50 the same as he did at 20 has wasted 30 years of his life.
The one charm about marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties.
You do things when the opportunities come along. I've had periods in my life when I've had a bundle of ideas come along, and I've had long dry spells. If I get an idea next week, I'll do something. If not, I won't do a damn thing.
Presents don't really mean much to me. I don't want to sound mawkish, but - it was the realization that I have a great many people in my life who really love me, and who I really love.
I'm so glad I never feel important, it does complicate life!
One's real life is so often the life that one does not lead.
Education is not preparation for life education is life itself.
Life must be lived and curiosity kept alive. One must never, for whatever reason, turn his back on life.
I bear a charmed life.
Man does not control his own fate. The women in his life do that for him.
I haven't trusted polls since I read that 62% of women had affairs during their lunch hour. I've never met a woman in my life who would give up lunch for sex.
In married life three is company and two none.
Life is pretty simple: You do some stuff. Most fails. Some works. You do more of what works. If it works big, others quickly copy it. Then you do something else. The trick is the doing something else.
Throw your dreams into space like a kite, and you do not know what it will bring back, a new life, a new friend, a new love, a new country.
A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.
Autobiographies are only useful as the lives you read about and analyze may suggest to you something that you may find useful in your own journey through life.
In modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good platitude. It makes the whole world kin.
The greatest day in your life and mine is when we take total responsibility for our attitudes. That's the day we truly grow up.
For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one.
It is one of the beautiful compensations in this life that no one can sincerely try to help another without helping himself.
In poverty and other misfortunes of life, true friends are a sure refuge. The young they keep out of mischief to the old they are a comfort and aid in their weakness, and those in the prime of life they incite to noble deeds.
I am a woman in process. I'm just trying like everybody else. I try to take every conflict, every experience, and learn from it. Life is never dull.
When you have nobody you can make a cup of tea for, when nobody needs you, that's when I think life is over.
If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast.
Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of.
Your daily life is your temple and your religion. When you enter into it take with you your all.
You have to take risks. We will only understand the miracle of life fully when we allow the unexpected to happen.
Frazier is so ugly that he should donate his face to the US Bureau of Wild Life.
If anyone is crazy enough to want to kill a president of the United States, he can do it. All he must be prepared to do is give his life for the president's.
He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.
The greatest gift of life is friendship, and I have received it.
Life is without meaning. You bring the meaning to it. The meaning of life is whatever you ascribe it to be. Being alive is the meaning.
The world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish all forms of human poverty, and all forms of human life.
Life is hard. Then you die. Then they throw dirt in your face. Then the worms eat you. Be grateful it happens in that order.
Opportunities to find deeper powers within ourselves come when life seems most challenging.
I am sorry to say that there is too much point to the wisecrack that life is extinct on other planets because their scientists were more advanced than ours.
The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?
There is always inequality in life. Some men are killed in a war and some men are wounded and some men never leave the country. Life is unfair.
I really haven't had that exciting of a life. There are a lot of things I wish I would have done, instead of just sitting around and complaining about having a boring life. So I pretty much like to make it up. I'd rather tell a story about somebody else.
Choose your life's mate carefully. From this one decision will come 90 percent of all your happiness or misery.
Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.
Success comes from taking the initiative and following up... persisting... eloquently expressing the depth of your love. What simple action could you take today to produce a new momentum toward success in your life?
I want to live my life so that my nights are not full of regrets.
Don't be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment.
This is the strangest life I've ever known.
The wise man does not expose himself needlessly to danger, since there are few things for which he cares sufficiently but he is willing, in great crises, to give even his life - knowing that under certain conditions it is not worthwhile to live.
I swear, by my life and my love of it, that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine.
Your life is the fruit of your own doing. You have no one to blame but yourself.
Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty, or give me death!
Life is thickly sown with thorns, and I know no other remedy than to pass quickly through them. The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to harm us.
I have learned, that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
When his life was ruined, his family killed, his farm destroyed, Job knelt down on the ground and yelled up to the heavens, 'Why god? Why me?' and the thundering voice of God answered, 'There's just something about you that pisses me off.'
All the breaks you need in life wait within your imagination, Imagination is the workshop of your mind, capable of turning mind energy into accomplishment and wealth.
The quality of a person's life is in direct proportion to their commitment to excellence, regardless of their chosen field of endeavor.
Are you bored with life? Then throw yourself into some work you believe in with all your heart, live for it, die for it, and you will find happiness that you had thought could never be yours.
Old age is just a record of one's whole life.
The more sand has escaped from the hourglass of our life, the clearer we should see through it.
Death and life have their determined appointments riches and honors depend upon heaven.
A man is a god in ruins. When men are innocent, life shall be longer, and shall pass into the immortal, as gently as we awake from dreams.
To be able to look back upon ones life in satisfaction, is to live twice.
An Atheist believes that a hospital should be built instead of a church. An atheist believes that deed must be done instead of prayer said. An atheist strives for involvement in life and not escape into death. He wants disease conquered, poverty vanished, war eliminated.
You want to believe that there's one relationship in life that's beyond betrayal. A relationship that's beyond that kind of hurt. And there isn't.
I need drama in my life to keep making music.
I should have no objection to go over the same life from its beginning to the end: requesting only the advantage authors have, of correcting in a second edition the faults of the first.
One thing they never tell you about child raising is that for the rest of your life, at the drop of a hat, you are expected to know your child's name and how old he or she is.
There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.
The ideal man bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of circumstances.
Friendship is the shadow of the evening, which increases with the setting sun of life.
To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.
Three grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.
Life without liberty is like a body without spirit.
You may not always have a comfortable life and you will not always be able to solve all of the world's problems at once but don't ever underestimate the importance you can have because history has shown us that courage can be contagious and hope can take on a life of its own.
Have courage for the great sorrows of life and patience for the small ones and when you have laboriously accomplished your daily task, go to sleep in peace.
The secret of life is honesty and fair dealing. If you can fake that, you've got it made.
Be true to the game, because the game will be true to you. If you try to shortcut the game, then the game will shortcut you. If you put forth the effort, good things will be bestowed upon you. That's truly about the game, and in some ways that's about life too.
Life and death are one thread, the same line viewed from different sides.
If we don't know life, how can we know death?
Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good be good for something.
He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. Is not life a hundred times too short for us to bore ourselves?
Life was always a matter of waiting for the right moment to act.
The object of life is not to be on the side of the majority, but to escape finding oneself in the ranks of the insane.
The energy of the mind is the essence of life.
I challenge you to make your life a masterpiece. I challenge you to join the ranks of those people who live what they teach, who walk their talk.
The expectations of life depend upon diligence the mechanic that would perfect his work must first sharpen his tools.
Life is a gift, and it offers us the privilege, opportunity, and responsibility to give something back by becoming more.
Life is the art of drawing without an eraser.
Politicians also have no leisure, because they are always aiming at something beyond political life itself, power and glory, or happiness.
Children are the anchors of a mother's life.
Freedom means you are unobstructed in living your life as you choose. Anything less is a form of slavery.
A life is either all spiritual or not spiritual at all. No man can serve two masters. Your life is shaped by the end you live for. You are made in the image of what you desire.
Is life not a thousand times too short for us to bore ourselves?
As soon as there is life there is danger.
It is best to rise from life as from a banquet, neither thirsty nor drunken.
Babies don't need a vacation, but I still see them at the beach... it pisses me off! I'll go over to a little baby and say 'What are you doing here? You haven't worked a day in your life!'
Life is not fair get used to it.
The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.
It is by going down into the abyss that we recover the treasures of life. Where you stumble, there lies your treasure.
One secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.
People disparage knowing and the intellectual life, and urge doing. I am content with knowing, if only I could know.
Waste your money and you're only out of money, but waste your time and you've lost a part of your life.
If there's not drama and negativity in my life, all my songs will be really wack and boring or something.
Art is the proper task of life.
Different men seek after happiness in different ways and by different means, and so make for themselves different modes of life and forms of government.
The unexamined life is not worth living.
Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith.
Each day is a little life: every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death.
I can't really change my life to accommodate people who are jealous. I don't see why I should.
There is no value in life except what you choose to place upon it and no happiness in any place except what you bring to it yourself.
As we advance in life it becomes more and more difficult, but in fighting the difficulties the inmost strength of the heart is developed.
I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor.
Men create gods after their own image, not only with regard to their form but with regard to their mode of life.
The true object of all human life is play. Earth is a task garden heaven is a playground.
Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.
Life began with waking up and loving my mother's face.
I want to wake up every day and do whatever comes in my mind, and not feel pressure or obligations to do anything else in my life.
A woman's life can really be a succession of lives, each revolving around some emotionally compelling situation or challenge, and each marked off by some intense experience.
A broad margin of leisure is as beautiful in a man's life as in a book. Haste makes waste, no less in life than in housekeeping. Keep the time, observe the hours of the universe, not of the cars.
I think computer viruses should count as life. I think it says something about human nature that the only form of life we have created so far is purely destructive. We've created life in our own image.
Thou wilt find rest from vain fancies if thou doest every act in life as though it were thy last.
I'd like to be settled into somewhat of a normal life. Somewhat. I know it's never going to be completely normal.
Ships that pass in the night, and speak each other in passing, only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the darkness So on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one another, only a look and a voice, then darkness again and a silence.
The most difficult thing is the decision to act, the rest is merely tenacity. The fears are paper tigers. You can do anything you decide to do. You can act to change and control your life and the procedure , the process is its own reward.
Loneliness is my least favorite thing about life. The thing that I'm most worried about is just being alone without anybody to care for or someone who will care for me.
In college I never realized the opportunities available to a pro athlete. I've been given the chance to meet all kinds of people, to travel and expand my financial capabilities, to get ideas and learn about life, to create a world apart from basketball.
Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.
The state comes into existence for the sake of life and continues to exist for the sake of good life.
Life is truly known only to those who suffer, lose, endure adversity and stumble from defeat to defeat.
There are two tragedies in life. One is to lose your heart's desire. The other is to gain it.
Dreams are necessary to life.
There are old heads in the world who cannot help me by their example or advice to live worthily and satisfactorily to myself but I believe that it is in my power to elevate myself this very hour above the common level of my life.
I have learned that success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has had to overcome while trying to succeed.
It's true, Christmas can feel like a lot of work, particularly for mothers. But when you look back on all the Christmases in your life, you'll find you've created family traditions and lasting memories. Those memories, good and bad, are really what help to keep a family together over the long haul.
A man can live and be healthy without killing animals for food therefore, if he eats meat, he participates in taking animal life merely for the sake of his appetite.
We can always choose to perceive things differently. You can focus on what's wrong in your life, or you can focus on what's right.
To fear love is to fear life, and those who fear life are already three parts dead.
You must understand the whole of life, not just one little part of it. That is why you must read, that is why you must look at the skies, that is why you must sing and dance, and write poems and suffer and understand, for all that is life.
When I chased after money, I never had enough. When I got my life on purpose and focused on giving of myself and everything that arrived into my life, then I was prosperous.
Our life is frittered away by detail... simplify, simplify.
Sometimes I feel my whole life has been one big rejection.
Respect is one of life's greatest treasures. I mean, what does it all add up to if you don't have that?
If you spend your life competing with business men, what do you have? A bank account and ulcers!
If there is only one thing in my life that I am proud of, it's that I've never been a kept woman.
Sometimes I think it would be easier to avoid old age, to die young, but then you'd never complete your life, would you? You'd never wholly know you.
Thug Life to me is dead.
There are two means of refuge from the miseries of life: music and cats.
A hero is someone who has given his or her life to something bigger than oneself.
I have so much chaos in my life, it's become normal. You become used to it. You have to just relax, calm down, take a deep breath and try to see how you can make things work rather than complain about how they're wrong.
For me life is continuously being hungry. The meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive, but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer.
Always fall in with what you're asked to accept. Take what is given, and make it over your way. My aim in life has always been to hold my own with whatever's going. Not against: with.
I don't have expectations. Expectations in your life just lead to giant disappointments.
Judgments, value judgments concerning life, for or against, can in the last resort never be true: they possess value only as symptoms, they come into consideration only as symptoms - in themselves such judgments are stupidities.
If you're married, and you have a wife, and you really love your wife, is it good enough to only say to your wife 'I love her' the day you get married? Or should you tell her every single day when you wake up and every opportunity? And that's how I feel about my relationship with Jesus Christ is that it is the most important thing in my life.
Let us beware of saying that death is the opposite of life. The living being is only a species of the dead, and a very rare species.
Life is divided into three terms - that which was, which is, and which will be. Let us learn from the past to profit by the present, and from the present, to live better in the future.
There are people who want to make men's lives more difficult for no other reason than the chance it provides them afterwards to offer their prescription for alleviating life their Christianity, for instance.
My definition of success is to live your life in a way that causes you to feel a ton of pleasure and very little pain - and because of your lifestyle, have the people around you feel a lot more pleasure than they do pain.
This is as true in everyday life as it is in battle: we are given one life and the decision is ours whether to wait for circumstances to make up our mind, or whether to act, and in acting, to live.
Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind.
Run for your life from any man who tells you that money is evil. That sentence is the leper's bell of an approaching looter.
Honesty and integrity are absolutely essential for success in life - all areas of life. The really good news is that anyone can develop both honesty and integrity.
A dream is your creative vision for your life in the future. You must break out of your current comfort zone and become comfortable with the unfamiliar and the unknown.
The lie is a condition of life.
The goal of life is to make your heartbeat match the beat of the universe, to match your nature with Nature.
If you plan on being anything less than you are capable of being, you will probably be unhappy all the days of your life.
Don't ignore the past, but deal with it, on your own pace. Once you deal with it, you are free of it and you are free to embrace your life and be a happy loving person because if you don't, the past will come back to haunt and keep coming back to haunt you.
What is called genius is the abundance of life and health.
Little men with little minds and little imaginations go through life in little ruts, smugly resisting all changes which would jar their little worlds.
Regarding life, the wisest men of all ages have judged alike: it is worthless.
Being in control of your life and having realistic expectations about your day-to-day challenges are the keys to stress management, which is perhaps the most important ingredient to living a happy, healthy and rewarding life.
Acceptance of one's life has nothing to do with resignation it does not mean running away from the struggle. On the contrary, it means accepting it as it comes, with all the handicaps of heredity, of suffering, of psychological complexes and injustices.
Bottom line is, I didn't return to Apple to make a fortune. I've been very lucky in my life and already have one. When I was 25, my net worth was $100 million or so. I decided then that I wasn't going to let it ruin my life. There's no way you could ever spend it all, and I don't view wealth as something that validates my intelligence.
The greatest mistake you can make in life is continually fearing that you'll make one.
A return to first principles in a republic is sometimes caused by the simple virtues of one man. His good example has such an influence that the good men strive to imitate him, and the wicked are ashamed to lead a life so contrary to his example.
The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.
I just don't know how to deal with so many people giving me that much affection. I never had that in my life.
The key to success is to keep growing in all areas of life - mental, emotional, spiritual, as well as physical.
About all you can do in life is be who you are. Some people will love you for you. Most will love you for what you can do for them, and some won't like you at all.
Wealth is the ability to fully experience life.
Every day is a new opportunity. You can build on yesterday's success or put its failures behind and start over again. That's the way life is, with a new game every day, and that's the way baseball is.
If you like small government you need to work hard at having a strong national defense that is not so militant. Personal liberty is the purpose of government, to protect liberty - not to run your personal life, not to run the economy, and not to pretend that we can tell the world how they ought to live.
What each must seek in his life never was on land or sea. It is something out of his own unique potentiality for experience, something that never has been and never could have been experienced by anyone else.
Faith is a living, daring confidence in God's grace, so sure and certain that a man could stake his life on it a thousand times.
You cannot tailor-make the situations in life but you can tailor-make the attitudes to fit those situations.
The only way to enjoy anything in this life is to earn it first.
Loneliness adds beauty to life. It puts a special burn on sunsets and makes night air smell better.
I've reached a point in my life where it's the little things that matter... I was always a rebel and probably could have got much farther had I changed my attitude. But when you think about it, I got pretty far without changing attitudes. I'm happier with that.
Dad almost died of a heart attack in the middle of making Apocalypse Now, the biggest movie of his life. It doesn't make you want to jump into that business.
I'm not one of those complicated, mixed-up cats. I'm not looking for the secret to life... I just go on from day to day, taking what comes.
Education doesn't change life much. It just lifts trouble to a higher plane of regard.
Only those who have learned the power of sincere and selfless contribution experience life's deepest joy: true fulfillment.
Apply yourself both now and in the next life. Without effort, you cannot be prosperous. Though the land be good, You cannot have an abundant crop without cultivation.
False friendship, like the ivy, decays and ruins the walls it embraces but true friendship gives new life and animation to the object it supports.
Develop an interest in life as you see it the people, things, literature, music - the world is so rich, simply throbbing with rich treasures, beautiful souls and interesting people. Forget yourself.
I always like to look on the optimistic side of life, but I am realistic enough to know that life is a complex matter.
Everyone has his own specific vocation or mission in life everyone must carry out a concrete assignment that demands fulfillment. Therein he cannot be replaced, nor can his life be repeated, thus, everyone's task is unique as his specific opportunity to implement it.
Never separate the life you live from the words you speak.
It is not doing the thing we like to do, but liking the thing we have to do, that makes life blessed.
Using the power of decision gives you the capacity to get past any excuse to change any and every part of your life in an instant.
The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run.
Nobody in life gets exactly what they thought they were going to get. But if you work really hard and you're kind, amazing things will happen.
If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life.
I have a great respect for incremental improvement, and I've done that sort of thing in my life, but I've always been attracted to the more revolutionary changes. I don't know why. Because they're harder. They're much more stressful emotionally. And you usually go through a period where everybody tells you that you've completely failed.
I would like to be remembered as a man who had a wonderful time living life, a man who had good friends, fine family - and I don't think I could ask for anything more than that, actually.
Most of the change we think we see in life is due to truths being in and out of favor.
Being yourself is one of the hardest things because it's scary. You always wonder whether you'll be accepted for who you really are. I decided to call my record 'Inside Out' because that's my motto about life. I don't think you ever succeed at trying to be anyone else but who you truly are.
There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living.
Nature and human life are as various as our several constitutions. Who shall say what prospect life offers to another?
When I am able to resist the temptation to judge others, I can see them as teachers of forgiveness in my life, reminding me that I can only have peace of mind when I forgive rather than judge.
I'm back to doing everything I used to, loving life as ever.
You leave old habits behind by starting out with the thought, 'I release the need for this in my life'.
The way you think, the way you behave, the way you eat, can influence your life by 30 to 50 years.
The quality of life is more important than life itself.
I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.
I think it's important to have closure in any relationship that ends - from a romantic relationship to a friendship. You should always have a sense of clarity at the end and know why it began and why it ended. You need that in your life to move cleanly into your next phase.
Where is the Life we have lost in living? Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?
I'm most proud of the blessings that God has bestowed upon me, in my life. He's given me the vision to truly see that you can fall down, but you can still get back up. Hopefully I'll learn from my mistakes and have the opportunity to strengthen and improve the next thing I do.
Two such as you with such a master speed, cannot be parted nor be swept away, from one another once you are agreed, that life is only life forevermore, together wing to wing and oar to oar.
Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.
You have the right to kill me, but you don't have the right to judge me. That's life. There's nobility in that. There's focus. It's genuine. It's crystal and it's pure and it's available to everybody, so just shut your traps and put down your McDonalds, your vaccines, your Us Weekly, your TMZ and the rest of it.
I would say my greatest achievement in life right now - my greatest achievement period is - and I'm still trying to achieve it - is to be a wonderful father to my kids.
Infuse your life with action. Don't wait for it to happen. Make it happen. Make your own future. Make your own hope. Make your own love. And whatever your beliefs, honor your creator, not by passively waiting for grace to come down from upon high, but by doing what you can to make grace happen... yourself, right now, right down here on Earth.
Life begins at the end of your comfort zone.
People are taken aback by a confident, pretty girl who knows what she wants in life and isn't going to let anyone get in her way. And you know what it's all about? Jealousy.
What I learned in jail is that I can't change. I can't live a different lifestyle-this is it. This is the life that they gave and this is the life that I made.
Let the refining and improving of your own life keep you so busy that you have little time to criticize others.
Once you've wrestled, everything else in life is easy.
The chief reason for going to school is to get the impression fixed for life that there is a book side for everything.
Death is not an event in life: we do not live to experience death. If we take eternity to mean not infinite temporal duration but timelessness, then eternal life belongs to those who live in the present.
When you are tough on yourself, life is going to be infinitely easier on you.
Take care to sell your horse before he dies. The art of life is passing losses on.
The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.
If you cannot work on the marriage or the women is a moron, staying married and cheating makes the most sense because divorce is disruptive to the family life and your bank account.
It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead your made for life.
Man's real life is happy, chiefly because he is ever expecting that it soon will be so.
It's better to be a lion for a day than a sheep all your life.
Winning is great, sure, but if you are really going to do something in life, the secret is learning how to lose. Nobody goes undefeated all the time. If you can pick up after a crushing defeat, and go on to win again, you are going to be a champion someday.
Live your life, do your work, then take your hat.
And Barack and I were raised with so many of the same values, like you work hard for what you want in life. That your word is your bond that you do what you say you're going to do. That you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don't know them and even if you don't agree with them.
Live the life you've dreamed.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
Each moment of a happy lover's hour is worth an age of dull and common life.
I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself than this incessant business.
Choose your friends with caution plan your future with purpose, and frame your life with faith.
There is always a present and extant life, be it better or worse, which all combine to uphold.
A man cannot be said to succeed in this life who does not satisfy one friend.
Accept responsibility for your life. Know that it is you who will get you where you want to go, no one else.
Unlike a drop of water which loses its identity when it joins the ocean, man does not lose his being in the society in which he lives. Man's life is independent. He is born not for the development of the society alone, but for the development of his self.
Poetry is a way of taking life by the throat.
The great advantage of a hotel is that it is a refuge from home life.
Life contains but two tragedies. One is not to get your heart's desire the other is to get it.
One life is all we have and we live it as we believe in living it. But to sacrifice what you are and to live without belief, that is a fate more terrible than dying.
The major value in life is not what you get. The major value in life is what you become.
It's a funny thing about life if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.
Life is the flower for which love is the honey.
My advice to people today is as follows: if you take the game of life seriously, if you take your nervous system seriously, if you take your sense organs seriously, if you take the energy process seriously, you must turn on, tune in, and drop out.
Miracles, in the sense of phenomena we cannot explain, surround us on every hand: life itself is the miracle of miracles.
Keep your eyes open to your mercies. The man who forgets to be thankful has fallen asleep in life.
If I had to live my life again, I'd make the same mistakes, only sooner.
The end of life is to be like God, and the soul following God will be like Him.
Life's like a movie, write your own ending. Keep believing, keep pretending.
The struggle of my life created empathy - I could relate to pain, being abandoned, having people not love me.
While we have the gift of life, it seems to me the only tragedy is to allow part of us to die - whether it is our spirit, our creativity or our glorious uniqueness.
I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake.
Becoming a father, I think it inevitably changes your perspective of life. I don't get nearly enough sleep. And the simplest things in life are completely satisfying. I find you don't have to do as much, like you don't go on as many outings.
God is to be worshipped as the one beloved, dearer than everything in this and next life.
Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.
The figure a poem makes. It begins in delight and ends in wisdom... in a clarification of life - not necessarily a great clarification, such as sects and cults are founded on, but in a momentary stay against confusion.
One of the secrets of life is that all that is really worth the doing is what we do for others.
No evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death.
All my life affection has been showered upon me, and every forward step I have made has been taken in spite of it.
There's only two people in your life you should lie to... the police and your girlfriend.
One way or another, we all have to find what best fosters the flowering of our humanity in this contemporary life, and dedicate ourselves to that.
The surest sign that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that it has never tried to contact us.
Life is to be lived. If you have to support yourself, you had bloody well better find some way that is going to be interesting. And you don't do that by sitting around.
No man is worth his salt who is not ready at all times to risk his well-being, to risk his body, to risk his life, in a great cause.
I am an example of what is possible when girls from the very beginning of their lives are loved and nurtured by people around them. I was surrounded by extraordinary women in my life who taught me about quiet strength and dignity.
Never permit a dichotomy to rule your life, a dichotomy in which you hate what you do so you can have pleasure in your spare time. Look for a situation in which your work will give you as much happiness as your spare time.
Above our life we love a steadfast friend.
Children make your life important.
Life is not what it's supposed to be. It's what it is. The way you cope with it is what makes the difference.
One of the sanest, surest, and most generous joys of life comes from being happy over the good fortune of others.
God had brought me to my knees and made me acknowledge my own nothingness, and out of that knowledge I had been reborn. I was no longer the centre of my life and therefore I could see God in everything.
Do every act of your life as if it were your last.
My mother wanted us to understand that the tragedies of your life one day have the potential to be comic stories the next.
Home life is no more natural to us than a cage is natural to a cockatoo.
Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
Life is short and we have never too much time for gladdening the hearts of those who are travelling the dark journey with us. Oh be swift to love, make haste to be kind.
When you step on the brakes your life is in your foot's hands.
Life levels all men. Death reveals the eminent.
I am just absolutely convinced that the best formula for giving us peace and preserving the American way of life is freedom, limited government, and minding our own business overseas.
You are a product of your environment. So choose the environment that will best develop you toward your objective. Analyze your life in terms of its environment. Are the things around you helping you toward success - or are they holding you back?
I'm not an example for how people should live their lives. Never in my life would I ever set out to be an example for people on how to live their lives. If you need an example for how to live, then you just shouldn't have been born. Straight up.
Without work, all life goes rotten. But when work is soulless, life stifles and dies.
I worked hard all my life as far as this music business. I dreamed of the day when I could go to New York and feel comfortable and they could come out here and be comfortable.
Maybe you don't like your job, maybe you didn't get enough sleep, well nobody likes their job, nobody got enough sleep. Maybe you just had the worst day of your life, but you know, there's no escape, there's no excuse, so just suck up and be nice.
Never try to impress a woman, because if you do she'll expect you to keep up the standard for the rest of your life.
Never throughout history has a man who lived a life of ease left a name worth remembering.
Too often in life, something happens and we blame other people for us not being happy or satisfied or fulfilled. So the point is, we all have choices, and we make the choice to accept people or situations or to not accept situations.
The life of an uneducated man is as useless as the tail of a dog which neither covers its rear end, nor protects it from the bites of insects.
I think what makes our marriage work amid all the glare is that my husband is my best friend. He inspires everything in my life and enables me to do the best that I can. I want to hang out with him more than anyone.
Life would be tolerable but for its amusements.
Dreams do come true, if we only wish hard enough, You can have anything in life if you will sacrifice everything else for it.
You are going to let the fear of poverty govern you life and your reward will be that you will eat, but you will not live.
I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear.
I really don't think life is about the I-could-have-beens. Life is only about the I-tried-to-do. I don't mind the failure but I can't imagine that I'd forgive myself if I didn't try.
We continue to shape our personality all our life. If we knew ourselves perfectly, we should die.
It is better to create than to learn! Creating is the essence of life.
What if you gave someone a gift, and they neglected to thank you for it - would you be likely to give them another? Life is the same way. In order to attract more of the blessings that life has to offer, you must truly appreciate what you already have.
There is a vitality, a life force, an energy, a quickening, that is translated through you into action, and because there is only one of you in all time, this expression is unique.
These technologies can make life easier, can let us touch people we might not otherwise. You may have a child with a birth defect and be able to get in touch with other parents and support groups, get medical information, the latest experimental drugs. These things can profoundly influence life. I'm not downplaying that.
Life is very interesting... in the end, some of your greatest pains, become your greatest strengths.
Today is life-the only life you are sure of. Make the most of today. Get interested in something. Shake yourself awake. Develop a hobby. Let the winds of enthusiasm sweep through you. Live today with gusto.
Every year of my life I grow more convinced that it is wisest and best to fix our attention on the beautiful and the good, and dwell as little as possible on the evil and the false.
This is love: to fly toward a secret sky, to cause a hundred veils to fall each moment. First to let go of life. Finally, to take a step without feet.
Maxim for life: You get treated in life the way you teach people to treat you.
Every man is the architect of his own life. He builds it just the way he wants it. However, after he has built what he wants, he sometimes decides that he doesn't like what he has built and looks for someone or something to blame instead of changing himself.
Whatever you do in life, surround yourself with smart people who'll argue with you.
Every human is an artist. The dream of your life is to make beautiful art.
Character, in the long run, is the decisive factor in the life of an individual and of nations alike.
Blood relatives often have nothing to do with family, and similarly, family is about who you choose to make your life with.
I believe this with all my heart: The greatest coach of all time in my eyes is my mom. She's instilled in me a toughness and a perseverance and just a never-quit mentality, and I thank her every day for providing me, for what she sacrificed her life for.
How do you go from where you are to where you wanna be? And I think you have to have an enthusiasm for life. You have to have a dream, a goal. And you have to be willing to work for it.
The real test of friendship is: can you literally do nothing with the other person? Can you enjoy those moments of life that are utterly simple?
The most glorious moments in your life are not the so-called days of success, but rather those days when out of dejection and despair you feel rise in you a challenge to life, and the promise of future accomplishments.
You come to a point in your life when you really don't care what people think about you, you just care what you think about yourself.
A well-developed sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to your steps as you walk the tightrope of life.
I've been absolutely terrified every moment of my life - and I've never let it keep me from doing a single thing I wanted to do.
Do the best you can, and don't take life too serious.
We only live once, but once is enough if we do it right. Live your life with class, dignity, and style so that an exclamation, rather than a question mark signifies it!
Life is only a dream and we are the imagination of ourselves.
I actually thought that it would be a little confusing during the same period of your life to be in one meeting when you're trying to make money, and then go to another meeting where you're giving it away. I mean is it gonna erode your ability, you know, to make money? Are you gonna somehow get confused about what you're trying to do?
Attention to health is life's greatest hindrance.
Friendship multiplies the good of life and divides the evil.
School is practice for future life, practice makes perfect and nobody's perfect, so why practice?
At times in my life the only place I have been happy is when I am on stage.
What you get is a living, what you give is a life.
Be patient and understanding. Life is too short to be vengeful or malicious.
I haven't lived a perfect life. I have regrets. But that's from a lifetime of taking chances, making decisions, and trying not to be frozen. The only thing that I can do with my regrets is understand them.
The value of life lies not in the length of days, but in the use we make of them... Whether you find satisfaction in life depends not on your tale of years, but on your will.
My trust in a higher power that wants me to survive and have love in my life, is what keeps me moving forward.
It takes half your life before you discover life is a do-it-yourself project.
He who binds to himself a joy Does the winged life destroy But he who kisses the joy as it flies Lives in eternity's sun rise.
Let us put our minds together and see what life we can make for our children.
Communication is a skill that you can learn. It's like riding a bicycle or typing. If you're willing to work at it, you can rapidly improve the quality of evry part of your life.
Life lived for tomorrow will always be just a day away from being realized.
I never did a day's work in my life. It was all fun.
Let love flow so that it cleanses the world. Then man can live in peace, instead of the state of turmoil he has created through his past ways of life, with all those material interests and earthly ambitions.
Sometimes it's the smallest decisions that can change your life forever.
There is a fountain of youth: it is your mind, your talents, the creativity you bring to your life and the lives of people you love. When you learn to tap this source, you will truly have defeated age.
Life is just one damned thing after another.
That's the way I got along in life. I don't ever remember being particularly jealous of anybody, because I figured if I can't do it myself, I don't deserve to get it.
Love, we say, is life but love without hope and faith is agonizing death.
The happiness of this life depends less on what befalls you than the way in which you take it.
It is possible to become discouraged about the injustice we see everywhere. But God did not promise us that the world would be humane and just. He gives us the gift of life and allows us to choose the way we will use our limited time on earth. It is an awesome opportunity.
And by the way, everything in life is writable about if you have the outgoing guts to do it, and the imagination to improvise. The worst enemy to creativity is self-doubt.
Man is subject to innumerable pains and sorrows by the very condition of humanity, and yet, as if nature had not sown evils enough in life, we are continually adding grief to grief and aggravating the common calamity by our cruel treatment of one another.
Television is not real life. In real life people actually have to leave the coffee shop and go to jobs.
To expect too much is to have a sentimental view of life and this is a softness that ends in bitterness.
We have to be able to grow up. Our wrinkles are our medals of the passage of life. They are what we have been through and who we want to be.
Polygamy: An endeavour to get more out of life than there is in it.
What material success does is provide you with the ability to concentrate on other things that really matter. And that is being able to make a difference, not only in your own life, but in other people's lives.
My Alma mater was books, a good library... I could spend the rest of my life reading, just satisfying my curiosity.
Live by this credo: have a little laugh at life and look around you for happiness instead of sadness. Laughter has always brought me out of unhappy situations.
It's not the men in my life that count, it's the life in my men.
Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what's going to happen next.
What they're not ready for is guys like you and I and Nails and all the other gnarly gnarlingtons in my life, that we are high priests, Vatican assassin warlocks. Boom. Print that, people. See where that goes.
I blame my mother for my poor sex life. All she told me was 'the man goes on top and the woman underneath.' For three years my husband and I slept in bunk beds.
Imagination and fiction make up more than three quarters of our real life.
Sleep - the most beautiful experience in life - except drink.
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
Be strong, believe in freedom and in God, love yourself, understand your sexuality, have a sense of humor, masturbate, don't judge people by their religion, color or sexual habits, love life and your family.
For if there is a sin against life, it consists perhaps not so much in despairing of life as in hoping for another life and in eluding the implacable grandeur of this life.
As a remedy to life in society I would suggest the big city. Nowadays, it is the only desert within our means.
It is normal to give away a little of one's life in order not to lose it all.
I've always taken 'The Wizard of Oz' very seriously, you know. I believe in the idea of the rainbow. And I've spent my entire life trying to get over it.
The highest and most beautiful things in life are not to be heard about, nor read about, nor seen but, if one will, are to be lived.
There are moments in life, when the heart is so full of emotion That if by chance it be shaken, or into its depths like a pebble Drops some careless word, it overflows, and its secret, Spilt on the ground like water, can never be gathered together.
It's funny the way most people love the dead. Once you are dead, you are made for life.
Life takes its path and sometimes there are people to blame. Of course there are bad people in this world. Good, bad, it happens unfortunately. But in a way I think if there was more focus on the good, more good would happen.
Life all comes down to a few moments. This is one of them.
The joy of life consists in the exercise of one's energies, continual growth, constant change, the enjoyment of every new experience. To stop means simply to die. The eternal mistake of mankind is to set up an attainable ideal.
One's family is the most important thing in life. I look at it this way: One of these days I'll be over in a hospital somewhere with four walls around me. And the only people who'll be with me will be my family.
The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future in life.
I like people that enjoy life, 'cause I do the same.
For God so loved the World that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
So if you stay ready, you ain't gotta get ready, and that is how I run my life.
Life is too short to spend hoping that the perfectly arched eyebrow or hottest new lip shade will mask an ugly heart.
We don't get a chance to do that many things, and every one should be really excellent. Because this is our life. Life is brief, and then you die, you know? So this is what we've chosen to do with our life.
If I had to choose a religion, the sun as the universal giver of life would be my god.
Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or duties, but of little things, in which smiles and kindness, and small obligations given habitually, are what preserve the heart and secure comfort.
There has never yet been a man in our history who led a life of ease whose name is worth remembering.
I just got one last thing, I urge all of you, all of you, to enjoy your life, the precious moments you have. To spend each day with some laughter and some thought, to get you're emotions going.
Do what you love to do and give it your very best. Whether it's business or baseball, or the theater, or any field. If you don't love what you're doing and you can't give it your best, get out of it. Life is too short. You'll be an old man before you know it.
I don't think you ever stop giving. I really don't. I think it's an on-going process. And it's not just about being able to write a check. It's being able to touch somebody's life.
Faith is the first factor in a life devoted to service. Without it, nothing is possible. With it, nothing is impossible.
My goal is to be one with the music. I just dedicate my whole life to this art.
A life lived with integrity - even if it lacks the trappings of fame and fortune is a shining star in whose light others may follow in the years to come.
If a man can bridge the gap between life and death, if he can live on after he's dead, then maybe he was a great man.
I like the idea of being alone. I like the idea of often being alone in all aspects of my life. I like to feel lonely. I like to need things.
Life is what we make it, always has been, always will be.
For the meaning of life differs from man to man, from day to day and from hour to hour. What matters, therefore, is not the meaning of life in general but rather the specific meaning of a person's life at a given moment.
One's life has value so long as one attributes value to the life of others, by means of love, friendship, indignation and compassion.
I'm at the age where food has taken the place of sex in my life. In fact, I've just had a mirror put over my kitchen table.
If I have any worth, it is to live my life for God so as to teach these peoples even though some of them still look down on me.
Life could be wonderful if people would leave you alone.
I really believe that everyone has a talent, ability, or skill that he can mine to support himself and to succeed in life.
I lost my sense of trust, honesty and compassion. I crashed down and became what I consider an emotional mess. I've never been so miserable in my whole life. I just wanted to go to bed and never get up.
I have found it easier to identify with the characters who verge upon hysteria, who were frightened of life, who were desperate to reach out to another person. But these seemingly fragile people are the strong people really.
Life can be pulled by goals just as surely as it can be pushed by drives.
I have been up against tough competition all my life. I wouldn't know how to get along without it.
Life is all memory, except for the one present moment that goes by you so quickly you hardly catch it going.
I have a lot of things to prove to myself. One is that I can live my life fearlessly.
You make mistakes, but I don't have any regrets. I'm the kind of person who takes responsibility for it and deals with it. I learn from everything I do. I work very hard, I have so many things going on in my life. Get to know me and see who I am.
Photography takes an instant out of time, altering life by holding it still.
Life's pretty good, and why wouldn't it be? I'm a pirate, after all.
Sorrow is knowledge, those that know the most must mourn the deepest, the tree of knowledge is not the tree of life.
Creativity is a great motivator because it makes people interested in what they are doing. Creativity gives hope that there can be a worthwhile idea. Creativity gives the possibility of some sort of achievement to everyone. Creativity makes life more fun and more interesting.
Gratitude helps you to grow and expand gratitude brings joy and laughter into your life and into the lives of all those around you.
If I were to say, 'God, why me?' about the bad things, then I should have said, 'God, why me?' about the good things that happened in my life.
Music is love, love is music, music is life, and I love my life. Thank you and good night.
I was set free because my greatest fear had been realized, and I still had a daughter who I adored, and I had an old typewriter and a big idea. And so rock bottom became a solid foundation on which I rebuilt my life.
I don't think I've ever worked so hard on something, but working on Macintosh was the neatest experience of my life. Almost everyone who worked on it will say that. None of us wanted to release it at the end. It was as though we knew that once it was out of our hands, it wouldn't be ours anymore.
Words can never adequately convey the incredible impact of our attitudes toward life. The longer I live the more convinced I become that life is 10 percent what happens to us and 90 percent how we respond to it.
I'll always stay connected with Apple. I hope that throughout my life I'll sort of have the thread of my life and the thread of Apple weave in and out of each other, like a tapestry. There may be a few years when I'm not there, but I'll always come back.
Friends are as companions on a journey, who ought to aid each other to persevere in the road to a happier life.
The first thing which I can record concerning myself is, that I was born. These are wonderful words. This life, to which neither time nor eternity can bring diminution - this everlasting living soul, began. My mind loses itself in these depths.
Take control of your consistent emotions and begin to consciously and deliberately reshape your daily experience of life.
When it comes to life the critical thing is whether you take things for granted or take them with gratitude.
He who is void of virtuous attachments in private life is, or very soon will be, void of all regard for his country. There is seldom an instance of a man guilty of betraying his country, who had not before lost the feeling of moral obligations in his private connections.
Sometimes, I feel like one who is on the sidelines, who has missed life itself.
Hold fast to dreams, for if dreams die, life is a broken-winged bird that cannot fly.
Life is to be entered upon with courage.
Difficult times have helped me to understand better than before, how infinitely rich and beautiful life is in every way, and that so many things that one goes worrying about are of no importance whatsoever.
Haters never win. I just think that's true about life, because negative energy always costs in the end.
In life you need either inspiration or desperation.
They tell us that suicide is the greatest piece of cowardice... that suicide is wrong when it is quite obvious that there is nothing in the world to which every man has a more unassailable title than to his own life and person.
Your problem is how you are going to spend this one odd and precious life you have been issued. Whether you're going to spend it trying to look good and creating the illusion that you have power over people and circumstances, or whether you are going to taste it, enjoy it and find out the truth about who you are.
You can't make positive choices for the rest of your life without an environment that makes those choices easy, natural, and enjoyable.
Woz is living his own life now. He hasn't been around Apple for about five years. But what he did will go down in history.
Half our life is spent trying to find something to do with the time we have rushed through life trying to save.
Choice of attention - to pay attention to this and ignore that - is to the inner life what choice of action is to the outer. In both cases, a man is responsible for his choice and must accept the consequences, whatever they may be.
It is a bit embarrassing to have been concerned with the human problem all one's life and find at the end that one has no more to offer by way of advice than 'try to be a little kinder.'
I think togetherness is a very important ingredient to family life.
Sometimes you trust someone who turns out not to be honest. There are a lot of things that happen in life that don't turn out the way you're given the impression that they will. And I think that's all kind of a con. But I think we've probably all been hurt.
My guiding principles in life are to be honest, genuine, thoughtful and caring.
Be thou the rainbow in the storms of life. The evening beam that smiles the clouds away, and tints tomorrow with prophetic ray.
I do not believe in excuses. I believe in hard work as the prime solvent of life's problems.
I made a mistake by being ejected from the presidency. Next time, I will choose a Cabinet which will allow me to be life President.
Life is too short to worry about anything. You had better enjoy it because the next day promises nothing.
The personal life deeply lived always expands into truths beyond itself.
You must pass your days in song. Let your whole life be a song.
A bachelor's life is a fine breakfast, a flat lunch, and a miserable dinner.
If you have no confidence in self, you are twice defeated in the race of life. With confidence, you have won even before you have started.
You know what your problem is, it's that you haven't seen enough movies - all of life's riddles are answered in the movies.
Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it.
You were made by God and for God, and until you understand that, life will never make sense.
Life is essentially a cheat and its conditions are those of defeat the redeeming things are not happiness and pleasure but the deeper satisfactions that come out of struggle.
My general attitude to life is to enjoy every minute of every day. I never do anything with a feeling of, 'Oh God, I've got to do this today.'
When you do the common things in life in an uncommon way, you will command the attention of the world.
Without knowing what I am and why I am here, life is impossible.
My focus is to forget the pain of life. Forget the pain, mock the pain, reduce it. And laugh.
Life is lived on the edge.
Life opens up opportunities to you, and you either take them or you stay afraid of taking them.
Part of the happiness of life consists not in fighting battles, but in avoiding them. A masterly retreat is in itself a victory.
Never build your emotional life on the weaknesses of others.
Justice in the life and conduct of the State is possible only as first it resides in the hearts and souls of the citizens.
A dog will teach you unconditional love. If you can have that in your life, things won't be too bad.
You are doomed to make choices. This is life's greatest paradox.
I wish to preach, not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the doctrine of the strenuous life.
You use your money to buy privacy because during most of your life you aren't allowed to be normal.
I lead no party I follow no leader. I have given the best part of my life to careful study of Islam, its law and polity, its culture, its history and its literature.
We must declare ourselves, become known allow the world to discover this subterranean life of ours which connects kings and farm boys, artists and clerks. Let them see that the important thing is not the object of love, but the emotion itself.
Faith means living with uncertainty - feeling your way through life, letting your heart guide you like a lantern in the dark.
You see, in life, lots of people know what to do, but few people actually do what they know. Knowing is not enough! You must take action.
Life is not an easy matter... You cannot live through it without falling into frustration and cynicism unless you have before you a great idea which raises you above personal misery, above weakness, above all kinds of perfidy and baseness.
I have a loyalty that runs in my bloodstream, when I lock into someone or something, you can't get me away from it because I commit that thoroughly. That's in friendship, that's a deal, that's a commitment. Don't give me paper - I can get the same lawyer who drew it up to break it. But if you shake my hand, that's for life.
Find ecstasy in life the mere sense of living is joy enough.
You hear a lot about God these days: God, the beneficent God, the all-great God, the Almighty God, the most powerful God, the giver of life God, the creator of death. I mean, we're hearing about God all the time, so we better learn how to deal with it. But if we know anything about God, God is arbitrary.
Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we live.
Just when I think I have learned the way to live, life changes.
I remember a specific moment, watching my grandmother hang the clothes on the line, and her saying to me, 'you are going to have to learn to do this,' and me being in that space of awareness and knowing that my life would not be the same as my grandmother's life.
When life knocks you down, try to land on your back. Because if you can look up, you can get up. Let your reason get you back up.
A lot of us grow up and we grow out of the literal interpretation that we get when we're children, but we bear the scars all our life. Whether they're scars of beauty or scars of ugliness, it's pretty much in the eye of the beholder.
In the last analysis, the individual person is responsible for living his own life and for 'finding himself.' If he persists in shifting his responsibility to somebody else, he fails to find out the meaning of his own existence.
Every life has a measure of sorrow, and sometimes this is what awakens us.
It's surprising how many persons go through life without ever recognizing that their feelings toward other people are largely determined by their feelings toward themselves, and if you're not comfortable within yourself, you can't be comfortable with others.
My philosophy is that not only are you responsible for your life, but doing the best at this moment puts you I the best place for the next moment.
People have a moral standard about what they will do and will not do. At the end of the day someone who cheats has a lower moral standard than someone who does not. And they will cheat in other areas of life as well.
The tragedy of life is in what dies inside a man while he lives - the death of genuine feeling, the death of inspired response, the awareness that makes it possible to feel the pain or the glory of other men in yourself.
A man who has been the indisputable favorite of his mother keeps for life the feeling of a conqueror.
Having Down syndrome is like being born normal. I am just like you and you are just like me. We are all born in different ways, that is the way I can describe it. I have a normal life.
Saving faith is an immediate relation to Christ, accepting, receiving, resting upon Him alone, for justification, sanctification, and eternal life by virtue of God's grace.
Cease trying to work everything out with your minds. It will get you nowhere. Live by intuition and inspiration and let your whole life be Revelation.
If you wish to succeed in life, make perseverance your bosom friend, experience your wise counselor, caution your elder brother, and hope your guardian genius.
I haven't understood a bar of music in my life, but I have felt it.
This is the highest wisdom that I own freedom and life are earned by those alone who conquer them each day anew.
Not by appointment do we meet delight Or joy they heed not our expectancy But round some corner of the streets of life they of a sudden greet us with a smile.
The meaning of life is contained in every single expression of life. It is present in the infinity of forms and phenomena that exist in all of creation.
The highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence.
Millions of young Americans have graduated from college during the Obama presidency, ready to use their gifts and get moving in life. Half of them can't find the work they studied for, or any work at all. So here's the question: Without a change in leadership, why would the next four years be any different from the last four years?
The game of life is a game of boomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds and words return to us sooner or later with astounding accuracy.
If a man neglects education, he walks lame to the end of his life.
All my life I've looked at words as though I were seeing them for the first time.
Love is the greatest refreshment in life.
Because we have so much eye candy and mind candy, spending so much time trying to pay the rent, all of this conspires to keep us from thinking too hard or taking action from that. Our time is stolen. So much of our daily life is stolen.
I spent my whole life in the private sector, 25 years in the private sector. I understand that when government takes more money out of the hands of people, it makes it more difficult for them to buy things. If they can't buy things, the economy doesn't grow. If the economy doesn't grow, we don't put Americans to work.
Black Consciousness is an attitude of the mind and a way of life, the most positive call to emanate from the black world for a long time.
I don't believe in an afterlife, so I don't have to spend my whole life fearing hell, or fearing heaven even more. For whatever the tortures of hell, I think the boredom of heaven would be even worse.
The safest course is to do nothing against one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and have no fear from death.
With an eye made quiet by the power of harmony, and the deep power of joy, we see into the life of things.
To have courage for whatever comes in life - everything lies in that.
The changes in our life must come from the impossibility to live otherwise than according to the demands of our conscience not from our mental resolution to try a new form of life.
I have dreamed in my life, dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas they have gone through and through me, like wine through water, and altered the color of my mind.
No one is in control of your happiness but you therefore, you have the power to change anything about yourself or your life that you want to change.
The purpose of human life is to serve, and to show compassion and the will to help others.
I've made some great mistakes in my life, but, you know, they were honest mistakes.
To gather with God's people in united adoration of the Father is as necessary to the Christian life as prayer.
Telling a teenager the facts of life is like giving a fish a bath.
The good life is a process, not a state of being. It is a direction not a destination.
Somebody should tell us, right at the start of our lives, that we are dying. Then we might live life to the limit, every minute of every day. Do it! I say. Whatever you want to do, do it now! There are only so many tomorrows.
I don't think I could live without hair, makeup and styling, let alone be the performer I am. I am a glamour girl through and through. I believe in the glamorous life and I live one.
The greatest humiliation in life, is to work hard on something from which you expect great appreciation, and then fail to get it.
As we advance in life we learn the limits of our abilities.
Yes, you can lose somebody overnight, yes, your whole life can be turned upside down. Life is short. It can come and go like a feather in the wind.
Tragedy in life normally comes with betrayal and compromise, and trading on your integrity and not having dignity in life. That's really where failure comes.
Trust is the glue of life. It's the most essential ingredient in effective communication. It's the foundational principle that holds all relationships.
If you find someone you love in your life, then hang on to that love.
It is a common saying, and in everybody's mouth, that life is but a sojourn.
There is no force like success, and that is why the individual makes all effort to surround himself throughout life with the evidence of it as of the individual, so should it be of the nation.
When you're passionate about something, you want it to be all it can be. But in the endgame of life, I fundamentally believe the key to happiness is letting go of that idea of perfection.
Being taken for granted can be a compliment. It means that you've become a comfortable, trusted element in another person's life.
The more sand that has escaped from the hourglass of our life, the clearer we should see through it.
Our heavenly Father understands our disappointment, suffering, pain, fear, and doubt. He is always there to encourage our hearts and help us understand that He's sufficient for all of our needs. When I accepted this as an absolute truth in my life, I found that my worrying stopped.
I wanted to write about the moment when your addictions no longer hide the truth from you. When your whole life breaks down. That's the moment when you have to somehow choose what your life is going to be about.
I'm a heroine addict. I need to have sex with women who have saved someone's life.
Thank you, God, for this good life and forgive us if we do not love it enough.
I never regret anything. Because every little detail of your life is what made you into who you are in the end.
Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be prepared for changes.
You can't live your life blaming your failures on your parents and what they did or didn't do for you. You're dealt the cards that you're dealt. I realised it was a waste of time to be angry at my parents and feel sorry for myself.
Take a chance! All life is a chance. The man who goes farthest is generally the one who is willing to do and dare.
Early in life I had to choose between honest arrogance and hypocritical humility. I chose the former and have seen no reason to change.
What we call the secret of happiness is no more a secret than our willingness to choose life.
There is only one success - to be able to spend your life in your own way.
Smoking kills. If you're killed, you've lost a very important part of your life.
The highest use of capital is not to make more money, but to make money do more for the betterment of life.
Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.
Keep love in your heart. A life without it is like a sunless garden when the flowers are dead.
Friends can help each other. A true friend is someone who lets you have total freedom to be yourself - and especially to feel. Or, not feel. Whatever you happen to be feeling at the moment is fine with them. That's what real love amounts to - letting a person be what he really is.
Sometimes the heart sees what is invisible to the eye.
Love is like a friendship caught on fire. In the beginning a flame, very pretty, often hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. As love grows older, our hearts mature and our love becomes as coals, deep-burning and unquenchable.
Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies.
I have decided to stick with love. Hate is too great a burden to bear.
Affection is responsible for nine-tenths of whatever solid and durable happiness there is in our lives.
Immature love says: 'I love you because I need you.' Mature love says 'I need you because I love you.'
Where there is love there is life.
We're born alone, we live alone, we die alone. Only through our love and friendship can we create the illusion for the moment that we're not alone.
A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge.
A man reserves his true and deepest love not for the species of woman in whose company he finds himself electrified and enkindled, but for that one in whose company he may feel tenderly drowsy.
I have found the paradox, that if you love until it hurts, there can be no more hurt, only more love.
For it was not into my ear you whispered, but into my heart. It was not my lips you kissed, but my soul.
A kiss is a lovely trick designed by nature to stop speech when words become superfluous.
Let us always meet each other with smile, for the smile is the beginning of love.
A flower cannot blossom without sunshine, and man cannot live without love.
If you live to be a hundred, I want to live to be a hundred minus one day so I never have to live without you.
Gravitation is not responsible for people falling in love.
Love begins at home, and it is not how much we do... but how much love we put in that action.
Love does not begin and end the way we seem to think it does. Love is a battle, love is a war love is a growing up.
Can miles truly separate you from friends... If you want to be with someone you love, aren't you already there?
A woman knows the face of the man she loves as a sailor knows the open sea.
A man is already halfway in love with any woman who listens to him.
Love is a force more formidable than any other. It is invisible - it cannot be seen or measured, yet it is powerful enough to transform you in a moment, and offer you more joy than any material possession could.
Time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice, but for those who love, time is eternity.
Do all things with love.
A kiss makes the heart young again and wipes out the years.
Absence diminishes mediocre passions and increases great ones, as the wind extinguishes candles and fans fires.
I was born with an enormous need for affection, and a terrible need to give it.
At the touch of love everyone becomes a poet.
Love is our true destiny. We do not find the meaning of life by ourselves alone - we find it with another.
Love yourself first and everything else falls into line. You really have to love yourself to get anything done in this world.
We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.
Love is a better teacher than duty.
Come live in my heart, and pay no rent.
Love is always bestowed as a gift - freely, willingly and without expectation. We don't love to be loved we love to love.
Love is like war: easy to begin but very hard to stop.
If you press me to say why I loved him, I can say no more than because he was he, and I was I.
The hunger for love is much more difficult to remove than the hunger for bread.
Love is life. And if you miss love, you miss life.
The best thing to hold onto in life is each other.
What we have once enjoyed we can never lose. All that we love deeply becomes a part of us.
As soon go kindle fire with snow, as seek to quench the fire of love with words.
Faith makes all things possible... love makes all things easy.
Friendship often ends in love but love in friendship - never.
A very small degree of hope is sufficient to cause the birth of love.
Once the realization is accepted that even between the closest human beings infinite distances continue, a wonderful living side by side can grow, if they succeed in loving the distance between them which makes it possible for each to see the other whole against the sky.
The best proof of love is trust.
A part of kindness consists in loving people more than they deserve.
Love isn't something you find. Love is something that finds you.
I like not only to be loved, but also to be told I am loved.
We loved with a love that was more than love.
A pair of powerful spectacles has sometimes sufficed to cure a person in love.
Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit.
A loving heart is the truest wisdom.
All my life, my heart has yearned for a thing I cannot name.
The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.
Love can sometimes be magic. But magic can sometimes... just be an illusion.
First love is only a little foolishness and a lot of curiosity.
Love makes your soul crawl out from its hiding place.
To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.
Love is an irresistible desire to be irresistibly desired.
I can live without money, but I cannot live without love.
Love is the flower you've got to let grow.
True love is like ghosts, which everyone talks about and few have seen.
The hours I spend with you I look upon as sort of a perfumed garden, a dim twilight, and a fountain singing to it. You and you alone make me feel that I am alive. Other men it is said have seen angels, but I have seen thee and thou art enough.
All love shifts and changes. I don't know if you can be wholeheartedly in love all the time.
Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs.
"Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.;Alfred Lord Tennyson;love
42927;Someday, after mastering the winds, the waves, the tides and gravity, we shall harness for God the energies of love, and then, for a second time in the history of the world, man will have discovered fire.;Pierre Teilhard de Chardin;love
42928;Everything is clearer when you're in love.;John Lennon;love
42929;The way to love anything is to realize that it may be lost.;Gilbert K. Chesterton;love
42930;We waste time looking for the perfect lover, instead of creating the perfect love.;Tom Robbins;love
42931;I was about half in love with her by the time we sat down. That's the thing about girls. Every time they do something pretty... you fall half in love with them, and then you never know where the hell you are.;J. D. Salinger;love
42932;Who, being loved, is poor?;Oscar Wilde;love
42933;Love is a game that two can play and both win.;Eva Gabor;love
42934;For small creatures such as we the vastness is bearable only through love.;Carl Sagan;love
42935;The one thing we can never get enough of is love. And the one thing we never give enough is love.;Henry Miller;love
42936;Love is when the other person's happiness is more important than your own.;H. Jackson Brown, Jr.;love
42937;The giving of love is an education in itself.;Eleanor Roosevelt;love
42938;All mankind love a lover.;Ralph Waldo Emerson;love
42939;You will find as you look back upon your life that the moments when you have truly lived are the moments when you have done things in the spirit of love.;Henry Drummond;love
42940;If you wish to be loved, show more of your faults than your virtues.;Edward G. Bulwer-Lytton;love
42941;Don't brood. Get on with living and loving. You don't have forever.;Leo Buscaglia;love
42942;The moment you have in your heart this extraordinary thing called love and feel the depth, the delight, the ecstasy of it, you will discover that for you the world is transformed.;Jiddu Krishnamurti;love
42943;It is sad not to love, but it is much sadder not to be able to love.;Miguel de Unamuno;love
42944;Love is of all passions the strongest, for it attacks simultaneously the head, the heart and the senses.;Lao Tzu;love
42945;The art of love is largely the art of persistence.;Albert Ellis;love
42946;Love is a friendship set to music.;Joseph Campbell;love
42947;There is no remedy for love but to love more.;Henry David Thoreau;love
42948;If you want to be loved, be lovable.;Ovid;love
42949;Love is the beauty of the soul.;Saint Augustine;love
42950;Love possesses not nor will it be possessed, for love is sufficient unto love.;Khalil Gibran;love
42951;Love is the triumph of imagination over intelligence.;H. L. Mencken;love
42952;To say 'I love you' one must first be able to say the 'I."
Before I met my husband, I'd never fallen in love. I'd stepped in it a few times.
If you would be loved, love, and be loveable.
Love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is done well.
Love does not dominate it cultivates.
Only do what your heart tells you.
You never lose by loving. You always lose by holding back.
Love... it surrounds every being and extends slowly to embrace all that shall be.
Love is the joy of the good, the wonder of the wise, the amazement of the Gods.
Love is a canvas furnished by nature and embroidered by imagination.
It's useless to hold a person to anything he says while he's in love, drunk, or running for office.
Love is a gross exaggeration of the difference between one person and everybody else.
What love we've given, we'll have forever. What love we fail to give, will be lost for all eternity.
To fear love is to fear life, and those who fear life are already three parts dead.
One is loved because one is loved. No reason is needed for loving.
Love is being stupid together.
Love is when you meet someone who tells you something new about yourself.
It is difficult to know at what moment love begins it is less difficult to know that it has begun.
How absurd and delicious it is to be in love with somebody younger than yourself. Everybody should try it.
In love the paradox occurs that two beings become one and yet remain two.
When love is not madness, it is not love.
The love we give away is the only love we keep.
Love is an act of endless forgiveness, a tender look which becomes a habit.
Blessed is the influence of one true, loving human soul on another.
To love another person is to see the face of God.
A kiss is a rosy dot over the 'i' of loving.
Love is the only sane and satisfactory answer to the problem of human existence.
Absence - that common cure of love.
Life is the flower for which love is the honey.
The only abnormality is the incapacity to love.
There is no disguise which can hide love for long where it exists, or simulate it where it does not.
Love consists in this, that two solitudes protect and touch and greet each other.
Be of love a little more careful than of anything.
Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same.
Love takes off masks that we fear we cannot live without and know we cannot live within.
A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another.
Love is supreme and unconditional like is nice but limited.
Gestures, in love, are incomparably more attractive, effective and valuable than words.
Looking back, I have this to regret, that too often when I loved, I did not say so.
I love that feeling of being in love, the effect of having butterflies when you wake up in the morning. That is special.
I believe in the compelling power of love. I do not understand it. I believe it to be the most fragrant blossom of all this thorny existence.
Lord, grant that I might not so much seek to be loved as to love.
Sometimes it's a form of love just to talk to somebody that you have nothing in common with and still be fascinated by their presence.
There is a woman at the begining of all great things.
Love knows not distance it hath no continent its eyes are for the stars.
The sweetest of all sounds is that of the voice of the woman we love.
The degree of loving is measured by the degree of giving.
People think love is an emotion. Love is good sense.
Love is the only reality and it is not a mere sentiment. It is the ultimate truth that lies at the heart of creation.
Love is the greatest refreshment in life.
There is only one kind of love, but there are a thousand imitations.
Love is the delusion that one woman differs from another.
If you wished to be loved, love.
Love is my religion - I could die for it.
Tell me who admires and loves you, and I will tell you who you are.
Love shall be our token love be yours and love be mine.
He is not a lover who does not love forever.
Love is the hardest habit to break, and the most difficult to satisfy.
When we are in love we seem to ourselves quite different from what we were before.
The most powerful weapon on earth is the human soul on fire.
Love is all we have, the only way that each can help the other.
Choose your love, Love your choice.
Falling in love consists merely in uncorking the imagination and bottling the common sense.
Love is an emotion experienced by the many and enjoyed by the few.
If you could only love enough, you could be the most powerful person in the world.
To witness two lovers is a spectacle for the gods.
Love means to commit yourself without guarantee.
Follow love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow thee.
The way to know life is to love many things.
Your words are my food, your breath my wine. You are everything to me.
The fact is that love is of two kinds, one which commands, and one which obeys. The two are quite distinct, and the passion to which the one gives rise is not the passion of the other.
Love is only a dirty trick played on us to achieve continuation of the species.
Down on your knees, and thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love.
Love takes up where knowledge leaves off.
Fortune and love favor the brave.
There is no surprise more magical than the surprise of being loved: It is God's finger on man's shoulder.
Each moment of a happy lover's hour is worth an age of dull and common life.
Love is suffering. One side always loves more.
Love is what you've been through with somebody.
Love looks through a telescope envy, through a microscope.
Love in its essence is spiritual fire.
There are never enough I Love You's.
Love is always being given where it is not required.
Friendship is Love without his wings!
Come live with me and be my love, And we will all the pleasures prove, That valleys, groves, hills, and fields, Woods, or steepy mountain yields.
The truth is that there is only one terminal dignity - love. And the story of a love is not important - what is important is that one is capable of love. It is perhaps the only glimpse we are permitted of eternity.
We are all born for love. It is the principle of existence, and its only end.
Love is the poetry of the senses.
There is always something left to love. And if you ain't learned that, you ain't learned nothing.
Love means to love that which is unlovable or it is no virtue at all.
People who throw kisses are hopelessly lazy.
Love is not only something you feel, it is something you do.
Love is the great miracle cure. Loving ourselves works miracles in our lives.
In every living thing there is the desire for love.
Love is but the discovery of ourselves in others, and the delight in the recognition.
For love is immortality.
We may give without loving, but we cannot love without giving.
Love conquers all.
Sometimes it's hard to be a woman giving all your love to just one man.
To love abundantly is to live abundantly, and to love forever is to live forever.
Love is that splendid triggering of human vitality the supreme activity which nature affords anyone for going out of himself toward someone else.
When you love a man, he becomes more than a body. His physical limbs expand, and his outline recedes, vanishes. He is rich and sweet and right. He is part of the world, the atmosphere, the blue sky and the blue water.
If you can learn to love yourself and all the flaws, you can love other people so much better. And that makes you so happy.
Say what you will, 'tis better to be left than never to have been loved.
Sympathy constitutes friendship but in love there is a sort of antipathy, or opposing passion. Each strives to be the other, and both together make up one whole.
Love is the power to see similarity in the dissimilar.
If thou must love me, let it be for naught except for love's sake only.
Take away love and our earth is a tomb.
Love is the word used to label the sexual excitement of the young, the habituation of the middle-aged, and the mutual dependence of the old.
Love is the child of illusion and the parent of disillusion.
Do you have to have a reason for loving?
The first magic of love is our ignorance that it can ever end.
Love's greatest gift is its ability to make everything it touches sacred.
The quarrels of lovers are the renewal of love.
When you're in love you never really know whether your elation comes from the qualities of the one you love, or if it attributes them to her whether the light which surrounds her like a halo comes from you, from her, or from the meeting of your sparks.
What the world really needs is more love and less paper work.
Woe to the man whose heart has not learned while young to hope, to love - and to put its trust in life.
Let no one who loves be unhappy, even love unreturned has its rainbow.
I don't know that love changes. People change. Circumstances change.
No one has ever loved anyone the way everyone wants to be loved.
He who loves, flies, runs, and rejoices he is free and nothing holds him back.
Love is the only gold.
To love and be loved is to feel the sun from both sides.
It is easier to love humanity as a whole than to love one's neighbor.
Though lovers be lost love shall not.
Nobody has ever measured, not even poets, how much the heart can hold.
When you love someone all your saved up wishes start coming out.
Love means not ever having to say you're sorry.
There is no limit to the power of loving.
Love you will find only where you may show yourself weak without provoking strength.
Love is a springtime plant that perfumes everything with its hope, even the ruins to which it clings.
O, thou art fairer than the evening air clad in the beauty of a thousand stars.
Love is a mutual self-giving which ends in self-recovery.
To love for the sake of being loved is human, but to love for the sake of loving is angelic.
You don't want to love - your eternal and abnormal craving is to be loved. You aren't positive, you're negative. You absorb, absorb, as if you must fill yourself up with love, because you've got a shortage somewhere.
There is more pleasure in loving than in being beloved.
When love is at its best, one loves so much that he cannot forget.
Love is like a faucet, it turns off and on.
More than kisses, letters mingle souls.
Stand by your man. Give him two arms to cling to and something warm to come to.
Love is metaphysical gravity.
There is room in the smallest cottage for a happy loving pair.
Who loves, raves.
With our love, we could save the world.
Pains of love be sweeter far than all other pleasures are.
To good and true love fear is forever affixed.
What is love? It is the morning and the evening star.
Ultimately love is everything.
True love is quiescent, except in the nascent moments of true humility.
Only love interests me, and I am only in contact with things that revolve around love.
You don't have to go looking for love when it's where you come from.
It is very easy to love alone.
Who so loves believes the impossible.
Only divine love bestows the keys of knowledge.
The richest love is that which submits to the arbitration of time.
We perceive when love begins and when it declines by our embarrassment when alone together.
Love ceases to be a pleasure when it ceases to be a secret.
All love is vanquished by a succeeding love.
We can only learn to love by loving.
We are most alive when we're in love.
Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?
Love is when he gives you a piece of your soul, that you never knew was missing.
Love is an energy which exists of itself. It is its own value.
In love there are two things - bodies and words.
We love but once, for once only are we perfectly equipped for loving.
I long for the raised voice, the howl of rage or love.
Love is love's reward.
But love's a malady without a cure.
Love is much nicer to be in than an automobile accident, a tight girdle, a higher tax bracket or a holding pattern over Philadelphia.
Is it not by love alone that we succeed in penetrating to the very essence of being?
Who would give a law to lovers? Love is unto itself a higher law.
Love is blind.
When we lose one we love, our bitterest tears are called forth by the memory of hours when we loved not enough.
The cure for all the ills and wrongs, the cares, the sorrows, and the crimes of humanity, all lie in the one word 'love'. It is the divine vitality that everywhere produces and restores life.
Oh, love will make a dog howl in rhyme.
Love is a hole in the heart.
Love is the magician that pulls man out of his own hat.
In our life there is a single color, as on an artist's palette, which provides the meaning of life and art. It is the color of love.
To enlarge or illustrate this power and effect of love is to set a candle in the sun.
One must not trifle with love.
All love is lost but upon God alone.
Darkness cannot drive out darkness only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate only love can do that.
Life is a song - sing it. Life is a game - play it. Life is a challenge - meet it. Life is a dream - realize it. Life is a sacrifice - offer it. Life is love - enjoy it.
We must develop and maintain the capacity to forgive. He who is devoid of the power to forgive is devoid of the power to love. There is some good in the worst of us and some evil in the best of us. When we discover this, we are less prone to hate our enemies.
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
When the power of love overcomes the love of power the world will know peace.
You can search throughout the entire universe for someone who is more deserving of your love and affection than you are yourself, and that person is not to be found anywhere. You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe deserve your love and affection.
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.
A successful marriage requires falling in love many times, always with the same person.
Spread love everywhere you go. Let no one ever come to you without leaving happier.
I refuse to accept the view that mankind is so tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a reality... I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word.
All major religious traditions carry basically the same message, that is love, compassion and forgiveness the important thing is they should be part of our daily lives.
I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word in reality. This is why right, temporarily defeated, is stronger than evil triumphant.
To love beauty is to see light.
There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues. They are the messengers of overwhelming grief, of deep contrition, and of unspeakable love.
My great hope is to laugh as much as I cry to get my work done and try to love somebody and have the courage to accept the love in return.
It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
Love and compassion are necessities, not luxuries. Without them humanity cannot survive.
Don't aim for success if you want it just do what you love and believe in, and it will come naturally.
It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love. This is how the whole scheme of things works. All good things are difficult to achieve and bad things are very easy to get.
I love people who make me laugh. I honestly think it's the thing I like most, to laugh. It cures a multitude of ills. It's probably the most important thing in a person.
When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive - to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.
The love of family and the admiration of friends is much more important than wealth and privilege.
Man must evolve for all human conflict a method which rejects revenge, aggression and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is love.
There can be no deep disappointment where there is not deep love.
Love begins by taking care of the closest ones - the ones at home.
If music be the food of love, play on.
Never forget the three powerful resources you always have available to you: love, prayer, and forgiveness.
If you have only one smile in you give it to the people you love.
Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into friend.
Have we not come to such an impasse in the modern world that we must love our enemies - or else? The chain reaction of evil - hate begetting hate, wars producing more wars - must be broken, or else we shall be plunged into the dark abyss of annihilation.
Hatred does not cease by hatred, but only by love this is the eternal rule.
All you need is love. But a little chocolate now and then doesn't hurt.
Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace, and gratitude.
I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but they whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.
If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.
Before marriage, a girl has to make love to a man to hold him. After marriage, she has to hold him to make love to him.
It may be true that the law cannot make a man love me, but it can keep him from lynching me, and I think that's pretty important.
At the center of non-violence stands the principle of love.
Love recognizes no barriers. It jumps hurdles, leaps fences, penetrates walls to arrive at its destination full of hope.
Friends show their love in times of trouble, not in happiness.
Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.
Let us more and more insist on raising funds of love, of kindness, of understanding, of peace. Money will come if we seek first the Kingdom of God - the rest will be given.
Let us not be satisfied with just giving money. Money is not enough, money can be got, but they need your hearts to love them. So, spread your love everywhere you go.
You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and its good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.
A coward is incapable of exhibiting love it is the prerogative of the brave.
You can't blame gravity for falling in love.
Never trust anyone completely but God. Love people, but put your full trust only in God.
If you love someone, set them free. If they come back they're yours if they don't they never were.
I love being married. It's so great to find that one special person you want to annoy for the rest of your life.
If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if they don't, they never were.
I love you when you bow in your mosque, kneel in your temple, pray in your church. For you and I are sons of one religion, and it is the spirit.
I say what I want to say and do what I want to do. There's no in between. People will either love you for it or hate you for it.
It is not enough to say we must not wage war. It is necessary to love peace and sacrifice for it.
You, yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.
People love chopping wood. In this activity one immediately sees results.
The foundation stones for a balanced success are honesty, character, integrity, faith, love and loyalty.
Love is friendship that has caught fire. It is quiet understanding, mutual confidence, sharing and forgiving. It is loyalty through good and bad times. It settles for less than perfection and makes allowances for human weaknesses.
If you want a love message to be heard, it has got to be sent out. To keep a lamp burning, we have to keep putting oil in it.
Love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own... Jealousy is a disease, love is a healthy condition. The immature mind often mistakes one for the other, or assumes that the greater the love, the greater the jealousy.
Intense love does not measure, it just gives.
But let there be spaces in your togetherness and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another but make not a bond of love: let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.
Even the rich are hungry for love, for being cared for, for being wanted, for having someone to call their own.
Love is a fruit in season at all times, and within reach of every hand.
I love mirrors. They let one pass through the surface of things.
Be Impeccable With Your Word. Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.
The beginning of love is to let those we love be perfectly themselves, and not to twist them to fit our own image. Otherwise we love only the reflection of ourselves we find in them.
If we listened to our intellect, we'd never have a love affair. We'd never have a friendship. We'd never go into business, because we'd be cynical. Well, that's nonsense. You've got to jump off cliffs all the time and build your wings on the way down.
Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love.
Anyway, no drug, not even alcohol, causes the fundamental ills of society. If we're looking for the source of our troubles, we shouldn't test people for drugs, we should test them for stupidity, ignorance, greed and love of power.
The beauty of a woman must be seen from in her eyes, because that is the doorway to her heart, the place where love resides.
And ever has it been known that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.
The things that will destroy America are prosperity-at-any-price, peace-at-any-price, safety-first instead of duty-first, the love of soft living, and the get-rich-quick theory of life.
Absence from those we love is self from self - a deadly banishment.
Love of beauty is taste. The creation of beauty is art.
I honestly think it is better to be a failure at something you love than to be a success at something you hate.
Love is the ability and willingness to allow those that you care for to be what they choose for themselves without any insistence that they satisfy you.
Men always want to be a woman's first love - women like to be a man's last romance.
Love is like a beautiful flower which I may not touch, but whose fragrance makes the garden a place of delight just the same.
I love sleep. My life has the tendency to fall apart when I'm awake, you know?
If we lose love and self respect for each other, this is how we finally die.
There is always the danger that we may just do the work for the sake of the work. This is where the respect and the love and the devotion come in - that we do it to God, to Christ, and that's why we try to do it as beautifully as possible.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
I know of only one duty, and that is to love.
One should always be in love. That is the reason one should never marry.
We've got this gift of love, but love is like a precious plant. You can't just accept it and leave it in the cupboard or just think it's going to get on by itself. You've got to keep watering it. You've got to really look after it and nurture it.
A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her.
The greatest gift that you can give to others is the gift of unconditional love and acceptance.
Many people mistake our work for our vocation. Our vocation is the love of Jesus.
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it.
Forgiveness is the final form of love.
The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother.
Joy is a net of love by which you can catch souls.
I try to give to the poor people for love what the rich could get for money. No, I wouldn't touch a leper for a thousand pounds yet I willingly cure him for the love of God.
If someone thinks that love and peace is a cliche that must have been left behind in the Sixties, that's his problem. Love and peace are eternal.
The first duty of love is to listen.
I see when men love women. They give them but a little of their lives. But women when they love give everything.
Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy.
Our life of poverty is as necessary as the work itself. Only in heaven will we see how much we owe to the poor for helping us to love God better because of them.
There are four questions of value in life... What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same. Only love.
Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.
Power is of two kinds. One is obtained by the fear of punishment and the other by acts of love. Power based on love is a thousand times more effective and permanent then the one derived from fear of punishment.
We are not the same persons this year as last nor are those we love. It is a happy chance if we, changing, continue to love a changed person.
God proved His love on the Cross. When Christ hung, and bled, and died, it was God saying to the world, 'I love you.'
Falling in love and having a relationship are two different things.
Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart.
Trust is to human relationships what faith is to gospel living. It is the beginning place, the foundation upon which more can be built. Where trust is, love can flourish.
As selfishness and complaint pervert the mind, so love with its joy clears and sharpens the vision.
When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain.
I love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by.
Love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction.
The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends.
Love is like a virus. It can happen to anybody at any time.
It has always seemed strange to me... the things we admire in men, kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding and feeling, are the concomitants of failure in our system. And those traits we detest, sharpness, greed, acquisitiveness, meanness, egotism and self-interest, are the traits of success. And while men admire the quality of the first they love the produce of the second.
Love one another and help others to rise to the higher levels, simply by pouring out love. Love is infectious and the greatest healing energy.
Christmas, my child, is love in action. Every time we love, every time we give, it's Christmas.
We never know the love of a parent till we become parents ourselves.
I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.
Love is a serious mental disease.
To love means loving the unlovable. To forgive means pardoning the unpardonable. Faith means believing the unbelievable. Hope means hoping when everything seems hopeless.
I love those who yearn for the impossible.
Love to faults is always blind, always is to joy inclined. Lawless, winged, and unconfined, and breaks all chains from every mind.
What does love look like? It has the hands to help others. It has the feet to hasten to the poor and needy. It has eyes to see misery and want. It has the ears to hear the sighs and sorrows of men. That is what love looks like.
The sadness of the women's movement is that they don't allow the necessity of love. See, I don't personally trust any revolution where love is not allowed.
Love. Fall in love and stay in love. Write only what you love, and love what you write. The key word is love. You have to get up in the morning and write something you love, something to live for.
I love life because what more is there?
Where we love is home - home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts.
Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.
But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven for he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
Show me your hands. Do they have scars from giving? Show me your feet. Are they wounded in service? Show me your heart. Have you left a place for divine love?
Once in his life, every man is entitled to fall madly in love with a gorgeous redhead.
All, everything that I understand, I understand only because I love.
Knowledge is love and light and vision.
Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better.
I guess I have always been deeply terrified to really be someone's wife since I know from life one cannot love another, ever, really.
Who could refrain that had a heart to love and in that heart courage to make love known?
The game of basketball has been everything to me. My place of refuge, place I've always gone where I needed comfort and peace. It's been the site of intense pain and the most intense feelings of joy and satisfaction. It's a relationship that has evolved over time, given me the greatest respect and love for the game.
I have a very strong feeling that the opposite of love is not hate - it's apathy. It's not giving a damn.
We can't command our love, but we can our actions.
One advantage of marriage is that, when you fall out of love with him or he falls out of love with you, it keeps you together until you fall in again.
If you want to be successful, it's just this simple. Know what you are doing. Love what you are doing. And believe in what you are doing.
Politics is such a torment that I advise everyone I love not to mix with it.
Justice that love gives is a surrender, justice that law gives is a punishment.
Find joy in everything you choose to do. Every job, relationship, home... it's your responsibility to love it, or change it.
Speak low, if you speak love.
I'm not claiming divinity. I've never claimed purity of soul. I've never claimed to have the answers to life. I only put out songs and answer questions as honestly as I can... But I still believe in peace, love and understanding.
True love doesn't happen right away it's an ever-growing process. It develops after you've gone through many ups and downs, when you've suffered together, cried together, laughed together.
This is one of the miracles of love: It gives a power of seeing through its own enchantments and yet not being disenchanted.
The best smell in the world is that man that you love.
Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.
Love is blind friendship closes its eyes.
Love never dies a natural death. It dies because we don't know how to replenish it's source. It dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. It dies of illness and wounds it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.
I do all the evil I can before I learn to shun it? Is it not enough to know the evil to shun it? If not, we should be sincere enough to admit that we love evil too well to give it up.
Love is too young to know what conscience is.
What light is to the eyes - what air is to the lungs - what love is to the heart, liberty is to the soul of man.
Love will find a way through paths where wolves fear to prey.
A friendship that like love is warm A love like friendship, steady.
Respect is what we owe love, what we give.
Love is not love that alters when it alteration finds.
Where love is, there God is also.
All you need is love.
Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our gigantic intellects.
No matter how dark the moment, love and hope are always possible.
When a man has once loved a woman he will do anything for her except continue to love her.
Hatred is blind, as well as love.
Who will tell whether one happy moment of love or the joy of breathing or walking on a bright morning and smelling the fresh air, is not worth all the suffering and effort which life implies.
The love of heaven makes one heavenly.
Love cannot save you from your own fate.
Love is the answer, and you know that for sure Love is a flower, you've got to let it grow.
If we love our country, we should also love our countrymen.
They do not love that do not show their love.
Man's nature is not essentially evil. Brute nature has been know to yield to the influence of love. You must never despair of human nature.
There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love.
I'm an introvert... I love being by myself, love being outdoors, love taking a long walk with my dogs and looking at the trees, flowers, the sky.
Those whom the gods love grow young.
Presents don't really mean much to me. I don't want to sound mawkish, but - it was the realization that I have a great many people in my life who really love me, and who I really love.
Flatter me, and I may not believe you. Criticize me, and I may not like you. Ignore me, and I may not forgive you. Encourage me, and I will not forget you. Love me and I may be forced to love you.
Is it not enough to know the evil to shun it? If not, we should be sincere enough to admit that we love evil too well to give it up.
Love is never lost. If not reciprocated, it will flow back and soften and purify the heart.
Do you know what it means to come home at night to a woman who'll give you a little love, a little affection, a little tenderness? It means you're in the wrong house, that's what it means.
Yesterday we obeyed kings and bent our necks before emperors. But today we kneel only to truth, follow only beauty, and obey only love.
The mother-child relationship is paradoxical and, in a sense, tragic. It requires the most intense love on the mother's side, yet this very love must help the child grow away from the mother, and to become fully independent.
Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.
Throw your dreams into space like a kite, and you do not know what it will bring back, a new life, a new friend, a new love, a new country.
Love is trembling happiness.
Even when I'm old and grey, I won't be able to play it, but I'll still love the game.
I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge. That myth is more potent than history. That dreams are more powerful than facts. That hope always triumphs over experience. That laughter is the only cure for grief. And I believe that love is stronger than death.
Don't do anything by half. If you love someone, love them with all your soul. When you go to work, work your ass off. When you hate someone, hate them until it hurts.
Love and doubt have never been on speaking terms.
A dog is the only thing on earth that loves you more than you love yourself.
Doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.
Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of.
Money can't buy love, but it improves your bargaining position.
Do not hire a man who does your work for money, but him who does it for love of it.
I wish people would love everybody else the way they love me. It would be a better world.
Alcohol may be man's worst enemy, but the bible says love your enemy.
Age does not protect you from love. But love, to some extent, protects you from age.
I'll love you, dear, I'll love you till China and Africa meet and the river jumps over the mountain and the salmon sing in the street.
If you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work.
Love is the expression of one's values, the greatest reward you can earn for the moral qualities you have achieved in your character and person, the emotional price paid by one man for the joy he receives from the virtues of another.
Personally, I just think rap music is the best thing out there, period. If you look at my deck in my car radio, you're always going to find a hip-hop tape that's all I buy, that's all I live, that's all I listen to, that's all I love.
Success comes from taking the initiative and following up... persisting... eloquently expressing the depth of your love. What simple action could you take today to produce a new momentum toward success in your life?
I swear, by my life and my love of it, that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine.
Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.
I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude.
He who falls in love with himself will have no rivals.
The story of life is quicker then the blink of an eye, the story of love is hello, goodbye.
When people get married because they think it's a long-time love affair, they'll be divorced very soon, because all love affairs end in disappointment. But marriage is a recognition of a spiritual identity.
Love and work are the cornerstones of our humanness.
When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.
Coming generations will learn equality from poverty, and love from woes.
Mother's love is peace. It need not be acquired, it need not be deserved.
If a man walks in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer. But if he spends his days as a speculator, shearing off those woods and making the earth bald before her time, he is deemed an industrious and enterprising citizen.
The two most misused words in the entire English vocabulary are love and friendship. A true friend would die for you, so when you start trying to count them on one hand, you don't need any fingers.
There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness.
There is no love without forgiveness, and there is no forgiveness without love.
Three grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.
Today I love myself as I love my god: who could charge me with a sin today? I know only sins against my god but who knows my god?
I know you've heard it a thousand times before. But it's true - hard work pays off. If you want to be good, you have to practice, practice, practice. If you don't love something, then don't do it.
One is very crazy when in love.
It is cruel, you know, that music should be so beautiful. It has the beauty of loneliness of pain: of strength and freedom. The beauty of disappointment and never-satisfied love. The cruel beauty of nature and everlasting beauty of monotony.
Men love to wonder, and that is the seed of science.
Do what you love. Know your own bone gnaw at it, bury it, unearth it, and gnaw it still.
Anxiety is love's greatest killer. It makes others feel as you might when a drowning man holds on to you. You want to save him, but you know he will strangle you with his panic.
Guilt for being rich, and guilt thinking that perhaps love and peace isn't enough and you have to go and get shot or something.
I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.
Truth is handsomer than the affectation of love. Your goodness must have some edge to it, else it is none.
Because of a great love, one is courageous.
There is not enough love and goodness in the world to permit giving any of it away to imaginary beings.
I have no hostility to nature, but a child's love to it. I expand and live in the warm day like corn and melons.
For though we love both the truth and our friends, piety requires us to honor the truth first.
A father may turn his back on his child, brothers and sisters may become inveterate enemies, husbands may desert their wives, wives their husbands. But a mother's love endures through all.
The greatest healing therapy is friendship and love.
Death is a challenge. It tells us not to waste time... It tells us to tell each other right now that we love each other.
Hallow the body as a temple to comeliness and sanctify the heart as a sacrifice to love love recompenses the adorers.
Sex without love is a meaningless experience, but as far as meaningless experiences go its pretty damn good.
I think my passion is misinterpreted as anger sometimes. And I don't think people are ready for the message that I'm delivering, and delivering with a sense of violent love.
A scholar who cherishes the love of comfort is not fit to be deemed a scholar.
If the Great Way perishes there will morality and duty. When cleverness and knowledge arise great lies will flourish. When relatives fall out with one another there will be filial duty and love. When states are in confusion there will be faithful servants.
What do I care about the purring of one who cannot love, like the cat?
No matter what you've done for yourself or for humanity, if you can't look back on having given love and attention to your own family, what have you really accomplished?
Not necessity, not desire - no, the love of power is the demon of men. Let them have everything - health, food, a place to live, entertainment - they are and remain unhappy and low-spirited: for the demon waits and waits and will be satisfied.
The wise are wise only because they love. The fool are fools only because they think they can understand love.
Pursue some path, however narrow and crooked, in which you can walk with love and reverence.
You don't have to deserve your mother's love. You have to deserve your father's.
Love thy neighbor - and if he happens to be tall, debonair and devastating, it will be that much easier.
A heart is not judged by how much you love, but by how much you are loved by others.
For anything worth having one must pay the price and the price is always work, patience, love, self-sacrifice - no paper currency, no promises to pay, but the gold of real service.
A woman can bring a new love to each man she loves, providing there are not too many.
Men who think that a woman's past love affairs lessen her love for them are usually stupid and weak.
I love a natural look in pictures.
Experts on romance say for a happy marriage there has to be more than a passionate love. For a lasting union, they insist, there must be a genuine liking for each other. Which, in my book, is a good definition for friendship.
Someday I want to have children and give them all the love I never had.
I am good, but not an angel. I do sin, but I am not the devil. I am just a small girl in a big world trying to find someone to love.
A strong man doesn't have to be dominant toward a woman. He doesn't match his strength against a woman weak with love for him. He matches it against the world.
I love those who do not know how to live for today.
Love is not consolation. It is light.
If you're married, and you have a wife, and you really love your wife, is it good enough to only say to your wife 'I love her' the day you get married? Or should you tell her every single day when you wake up and every opportunity? And that's how I feel about my relationship with Jesus Christ is that it is the most important thing in my life.
Friendship may, and often does, grow into love, but love never subsides into friendship.
This is the hardest of all: to close the open hand out of love, and keep modest as a giver.
Whatever is done for love always occurs beyond good and evil.
Love matches, so called, have illusion for their father and need for their mother.
Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful.
Never go on trips with anyone you do not love.
Work like you don't need the money. Love like you've never been hurt. Dance like nobody's watching.
A woman in love can't be reasonable - or she probably wouldn't be in love.
Love has nothing to do with what you are expecting to get - only with what you are expecting to give - which is everything.
We all want to be in love and find that person who is going to love us no matter how our feet smell, no matter how angry we get one day, no matter the things we say that we don't mean.
A tree is known by its fruit a man by his deeds. A good deed is never lost he who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love.
The great gift of Easter is hope - Christian hope which makes us have that confidence in God, in his ultimate triumph, and in his goodness and love, which nothing can shake.
Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap-on-a-rope.
There is no lonelier man in death, except the suicide, than that man who has lived many years with a good wife and then outlived her. If two people love each other there can be no happy end to it.
Of all that is written, I love only what a person has written with his own blood.
There is no sincerer love than the love of food.
Ignorance and bungling with love are better than wisdom and skill without.
Honestly, I'd love to be remembered as one of the best to ever pick up a mic, but if I'm doing my part to lessen some racial tension I feel good about what I'm doing.
Those whom we can love, we can hate to others we are indifferent.
The time I burned my guitar it was like a sacrifice. You sacrifice the things you love. I love my guitar.
You can give without loving, but you can never love without giving.
I love the attention but I don't like too much of it.
Do not seek the because - in love there is no because, no reason, no explanation, no solutions.
A man in love is incomplete until he has married. Then he's finished.
I have an everyday religion that works for me. Love yourself first, and everything else falls into line.
A poet never takes notes. You never take notes in a love affair.
So much of what is best in us is bound up in our love of family, that it remains the measure of our stability because it measures our sense of loyalty. All other pacts of love or fear derive from it and are modeled upon it.
Because parents have power over children. They feel they have to do what their parents say. But the love of money is the root of all evil. And this is a sweet child. And to see him turn like this, this isn't him. This is not him.
For one human being to love another that is perhaps the most difficult of all our tasks, the ultimate, the last test and proof, the work for which all other work is but preparation.
Loyalty and devotion lead to bravery. Bravery leads to the spirit of self-sacrifice. The spirit of self-sacrifice creates trust in the power of love.
The perfect love affair is one which is conducted entirely by post.
Let us dream of tomorrow where we can truly love from the soul, and know love as the ultimate truth at the heart of all creation.
I love Mickey Mouse more than any woman I have ever known.
Love comes when manipulation stops when you think more about the other person than about his or her reactions to you. When you dare to reveal yourself fully. When you dare to be vulnerable.
Life in abundance comes only through great love.
Love and desire are the spirit's wings to great deeds.
Everyone has inside of him a piece of good news. The good news is that you don't know how great you can be! How much you can love! What you can accomplish! And what your potential is!
Love is something far more than desire for sexual intercourse it is the principal means of escape from the loneliness which afflicts most men and women throughout the greater part of their lives.
The only creatures that are evolved enough to convey pure love are dogs and infants.
Infuse your life with action. Don't wait for it to happen. Make it happen. Make your own future. Make your own hope. Make your own love. And whatever your beliefs, honor your creator, not by passively waiting for grace to come down from upon high, but by doing what you can to make grace happen... yourself, right now, right down here on Earth.
It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead your made for life.
Having a child is surely the most beautifully irrational act that two people in love can commit.
Jealousy contains more of self-love than of love.
Since love grows within you, so beauty grows. For love is the beauty of the soul.
May we so love as never to have occasion to repent of our love!
You either love or you hate. You live in the middle, you get nothing.
You gotta love livin', baby, 'cause dyin' is a pain in the ass.
It is most unwise for people in love to marry.
The struggle of my life created empathy - I could relate to pain, being abandoned, having people not love me.
Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.
Adapt yourself to the things among which your lot has been cast and love sincerely the fellow creatures with whom destiny has ordained that you shall live.
Let the beauty of what you love be what you do.
Oh, the tiger will love you. There is no sincerer love than the love of food.
Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned, nor hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Only on paper has humanity yet achieved glory, beauty, truth, knowledge, virtue, and abiding love.
My friends and family are my support system. They tell me what I need to hear, not what I want to hear and they are there for me in the good and bad times. Without them I have no idea where I would be and I know that their love for me is what's keeping my head above the water.
The fickleness of the women I love is only equalled by the infernal constancy of the women who love me.
I will love the light for it shows me the way, yet I will endure the darkness because it shows me the stars.
Love is always open arms. If you close your arms about love you will find that you are left holding only yourself.
Love grows by giving. The love we give away is the only love we keep. The only way to retain love is to give it away.
Let your religion be less of a theory and more of a love affair.
All the laws and legislation in the world will never heal this world like the loving hearts and arms of mothers and fathers. If every child could drift to sleep feeling wrapped in the love of their family - and God's love - this world would be a far more gentle and better place.
The love of economy is the root of all virtue.
Courage is like love it must have hope for nourishment.
I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear.
If love is the answer, could you please rephrase the question?
All the commandments: You shall not commit adultery, you shall not kill, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and so on, are summed up in this single command: You must love your neighbor as yourself.
No work or love will flourish out of guilt, fear, or hollowness of heart, just as no valid plans for the future can be made by those who have no capacity for living now.
To love rightly is to love what is orderly and beautiful in an educated and disciplined way.
Christmas in Bethlehem. The ancient dream: a cold, clear night made brilliant by a glorious star, the smell of incense, shepherds and wise men falling to their knees in adoration of the sweet baby, the incarnation of perfect love.
Fantasy love is much better than reality love. Never doing it is very exciting. The most exciting attractions are between two opposites that never meet.
The most authentic thing about us is our capacity to create, to overcome, to endure, to transform, to love and to be greater than our suffering.
I come from that society and there is a common thread, specifically family values - the idea that you do anything for your family, and the unconditional love for one's children.
When women love us, they forgive us everything, even our crimes when they do not love us, they give us credit for nothing, not even our virtues.
Anger and jealousy can no more bear to lose sight of their objects than love.
Love conquers all things except poverty and toothache.
We always deceive ourselves twice about the people we love - first to their advantage, then to their disadvantage.
Let love flow so that it cleanses the world. Then man can live in peace, instead of the state of turmoil he has created through his past ways of life, with all those material interests and earthly ambitions.
The reason men oppose progress is not that they hate progress, but that they love inertia.
Love, we say, is life but love without hope and faith is agonizing death.
Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love.
You don't have to be singing about love all the time in order to give love to the people. You don't have to keep flashing those words all the time.
Don't forget to love yourself.
We are never so defensless against suffering as when we love.
All women have a perception much more developed than men. So all women somehow, being repressed for so many millennia, they ended up by developing this sixth sense and contemplation and love. And this is something that we have a hard time to accept as part of our society.
There is no scarcity of opportunity to make a living at what you love there's only scarcity of resolve to make it happen.
It's not an act. I love it. It's totally original. People go, 'What's going on with this guy? Why does he sound so weird? What is going on in his brain. I don't know. Just one day I suddenly woke up with a new brain.
Never make your home in a place. Make a home for yourself inside your own head. You'll find what you need to furnish it - memory, friends you can trust, love of learning, and other such things. That way it will go with you wherever you journey.
If I love you, what business is it of yours?
I often try to tell kids to think about all the people who love you, don't cry over the one person who doesn't.
When you have really exhausted an experience you always reverence and love it.
Where there is great love, there are always wishes.
Sex without love is merely healthy exercise.
It's funny the way most people love the dead. Once you are dead, you are made for life.
We need to teach the next generation of children from day one that they are responsible for their lives. Mankind's greatest gift, also its greatest curse, is that we have free choice. We can make our choices built from love or from fear.
Love always creates, it never destroys. In this lie's man's only promise.
Animals are reliable, many full of love, true in their affections, predictable in their actions, grateful and loyal. Difficult standards for people to live up to.
Love may be or it may not, but where it is, it ought to reveal itself in its immensity.
I love to go to Washington - if only to be near my money.
May you live as long as you wish and love as long as you live.
To keep your marriage brimming, With love in the loving cup, Whenever you're wrong, admit it Whenever you're right, shut up.
The Eskimos had fifty-two names for snow because it was important to them: there ought to be as many for love.
We, the People, recognize that we have responsibilities as well as rights that our destinies are bound together that a freedom which only asks what's in it for me, a freedom without a commitment to others, a freedom without love or charity or duty or patriotism, is unworthy of our founding ideals, and those who died in their defense.
Man is an idea, and a precious small idea once he turns his back on love.
The desire for possession is insatiable, to such a point that it can survive even love itself. To love, therefore, is to sterilize the person one loves.
One's life has value so long as one attributes value to the life of others, by means of love, friendship, indignation and compassion.
I am certainly not an authority on love because there are no authorities on love, just those who've had luck with it and those who haven't.
To abandon oneself to principles is really to die - and to die for an impossible love which is the contrary of love.
Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love.
Humanity I love you because when you're hard up you pawn your intelligence to buy a drink.
I do not deny that I planned sabotage. I did not plan it in a spirit of recklessness nor because I have any love of violence. I planned it as a result of a calm and sober assessment of the political situation that had arisen after many years of tyranny, exploitation and oppression of my people by the whites.
Give a child love, laughter and peace, not AIDS.
A good teacher can inspire hope, ignite the imagination, and instill a love of learning.
In the silence of night I have often wished for just a few words of love from one man, rather than the applause of thousands of people.
Music is love, love is music, music is life, and I love my life. Thank you and good night.
The ultimate lesson all of us have to learn is unconditional love, which includes not only others but ourselves as well.
Love isn't an emotion or an instinct - it's an art.
My parents shared not only an improbable love, they shared an abiding faith in the possibilities of this nation. They would give me an African name, Barack, or blessed, believing that in a tolerant America your name is no barrier to success.
Love: A temporary insanity curable by marriage.
Hate is only a form love that hasn't found a way to express itself logically.
I met in the street a very poor young man who was in love. His hat was old, his coat worn, his cloak was out at the elbows, the water passed through his shoes, - and the stars through his soul.
Enlightened leadership is spiritual if we understand spirituality not as some kind of religious dogma or ideology but as the domain of awareness where we experience values like truth, goodness, beauty, love and compassion, and also intuition, creativity, insight and focused attention.
No one is a friend to his friend who does not love in return.
True love comes quietly, without banners or flashing lights. If you hear bells, get your ears checked.
It is not love that should be depicted as blind, but self-love.
Nothing can bring a real sense of security into the home except true love.
I will not be just a tourist in the world of images, just watching images passing by which I cannot live in, make love to, possess as permanent sources of joy and ecstasy.
I love to think of nature as an unlimited broadcasting station, through which God speaks to us every hour, if we will only tune in.
I like America, just as everybody else does. I love America, I gotta say that. But America will be judged.
May we not succumb to thoughts of violence and revenge today, but rather to thoughts of mercy and compassion. We are to love our enemies that they might be returned to their right minds.
For true love is inexhaustible the more you give, the more you have. And if you go to draw at the true fountainhead, the more water you draw, the more abundant is its flow.
We're not raising children with the love that we need to.
There is something in the unselfish and self-sacrificing love of a brute, which goes directly to the heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere Man.
What I needed most was to love and to be loved, eager to be caught. Happily I wrapped those painful bonds around me and sure enough, I would be lashed with the red-hot pokers or jealousy, by suspicions and fear, by burst of anger and quarrels.
Love is the ultimate theme, but it's not just for women.
It is impossible to love and to be wise.
My number one goal is to love, support and be there for my son.
Food, love, career, and mothers, the four major guilt groups.
There is no friendship, no love, like that of the parent for the child.
I never knew how to worship until I knew how to love.
The essential elements of giving are power and love - activity and affection - and the consciousness of the race testifies that in the high and appropriate exercise of these is a blessedness greater than any other.
I love being black in America, and especially being black in Hollywood.
Love seeks one thing only: the good of the one loved. It leaves all the other secondary effects to take care of themselves. Love, therefore, is its own reward.
There is only one secure foundation: a genuine, deep relationship with Jesus Christ, which will carry you through any and all turmoil. No matter what storms are raging all around, you'll stand firm if you stand on His love.
If you love someone, you say it, right then, out loud. Otherwise, the moment just passes you by.
It's tangible, it's solid, it's beautiful. It's artistic, from my standpoint, and I just love real estate.
Love can consign us to hell or to paradise, but it always takes us somewhere.
If you find someone you love in your life, then hang on to that love.
Thank you, God, for this good life and forgive us if we do not love it enough.
Those who intend on becoming great should love neither themselves nor their own things, but only what is just, whether it happens to be done by themselves or others.
Disneyland is a work of love. We didn't go into Disneyland just with the idea of making money.
I love it when someone insults me. That means that I don't have to be nice anymore.
Any fool knows that bravado is always a cover-up for insecurity. That's the truth. And on that note, I'll say goodnight. God love you.
Look your best - who said love is blind?
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
Love implies anger. The man who is angered by nothing cares about nothing.
Believe in love. Believe in magic. Hell, believe in Santa Clause. Believe in others. Believe in yourself. Believe in your dreams. If you don't, who will?
I love producing. I am loving doing that. I think that is my most natural space in the business. I just love producing or editing and that's where I thrive.
I believe in an America where millions of Americans believe in an America that's the America millions of Americans believe in. That's the America I love.
Girls we love for what they are young men for what they promise to be.
I love women, but I feel like you can't trust some of them. Some of them are liars, you know? Like I was in the park and I met this girl, she was cute and she had a dog. And I went up to her, we started talking. She told me her dog's name. Then I said, 'Does he bite?' She said, 'No.' And I said, 'Oh yeah? Then how does he eat?' Liar.
If having a soul means being able to feel love and loyalty and gratitude, then animals are better off than a lot of humans.
There are more love songs than anything else. If songs could make you do something we'd all love one another.
Americans love to fight. All real Americans love the sting of battle.
Love feels no burden, thinks nothing of trouble, attempts what is above its strength, pleads no excuse of impossibility for it thinks all things lawful for itself, and all things possible.
Young love is a flame very pretty, often very hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. The love of the older and disciplined heart is as coals, deep-burning, unquenchable.
I'm in trouble because I'm normal and slightly arrogant. A lot of people don't like themselves and I happen to be totally in love with myself.
The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.
What I know is, is that if you do work that you love, and the work fulfills you, the rest will come.
Some white people hate black people, and some white people love black people, some black people hate white people, and some black people love white people. So you see it's not an issue of black and white, it's an issue of Lovers and Haters.
I love romance. I'm a sucker for it. I love it so much. It's pathetic.
Start living now. Stop saving the good china for that special occasion. Stop withholding your love until that special person materializes. Every day you are alive is a special occasion. Every minute, every breath, is a gift from God.
I'm not saying that love always takes you to heaven. Your life can become a nightmare. But that said, it is worth taking the risk.
What I cannot love, I overlook. Is that real friendship?
I love argument, I love debate. I don't expect anyone just to sit there and agree with me, that's not their job.
Ask those who love Him with a sincere love, and they will tell you that they find no greater or prompter relief amid the troubles of their life than in loving conversation with their Divine Friend.
Love does not claim possession, but gives freedom.
Love is the master key that opens the gates of happiness.
Whoever loves becomes humble. Those who love have, so to speak, pawned a part of their narcissism.
If love does not know how to give and take without restrictions, it is not love, but a transaction that never fails to lay stress on a plus and a minus.
Acceptance is not love. You love a person because he or she has lovable traits, but you accept everybody just because they're alive and human.
And I ask why am I black, they say I was born in sin, and shamed inequity. One of the main songs we used to sing in church makes me sick, 'love wash me and I shall be whiter than snow.
Love has features which pierce all hearts, he wears a bandage which conceals the faults of those beloved. He has wings, he comes quickly and flies away the same.
Well, love is insanity. The ancient Greeks knew that. It is the taking over of a rational and lucid mind by delusion and self-destruction. You lose yourself, you have no power over yourself, you can't even think straight.
I love you the more in that I believe you had liked me for my own sake and for nothing else.
True love stories never have endings.
It's good for everyone to understand that they are to love their enemies, simply because your enemies show you things about yourself you need to change. So in actuality enemies are friends in reverse.
Faith is love taking the form of aspiration.
I always like to win. But I'm the big sister. I want to make sure she has everything, even if I don't have anything. It's hard. I love her too much. That's what counts.
Behold, my friends, the spring is come the earth has gladly received the embraces of the sun, and we shall soon see the results of their love!
A bell's not a bell 'til you ring it, A song's not a song 'til you sing it, Love in your heart wasn't put there to stay, Love isn't love 'til you give it away!
It is not the creation of wealth that is wrong, but the love of money for its own sake.
Depression is when you have lots of love, but no one's taking.
I think what motivates people is not great hate, but great love for other people.
We can't form our children on our own concepts we must take them and love them as God gives them to us.
Treasure the love you receive above all. It will survive long after your good health has vanished.
You should hurry up and acquire the cigar habit. It's one of the major happinesses. And so much more lasting than love, so much less costly in emotional wear and tear.
All men and women have an equal need for love. When these needs are not fulfilled it is easy to have our feelings hurt, for which we blame our partner.
I love my family very much. I wish I could see them a little more often than I do. But we understand because we're a show business family and we all work.
We do not judge the people we love.
Love cannot endure indifference. It needs to be wanted. Like a lamp, it needs to be fed out of the oil of another's heart, or its flame burns low.
Trust in what you love, continue to do it, and it will take you where you need to go.
For love would be love of the wrong thing there is yet faith, But the faith and the love and the hope are all in the waiting.
Grief is the price we pay for love.
I love blackjack. But I'm not addicted to gambling. I'm addicted to sitting in a semi circle.
I love everything that's old, - old friends, old times, old manners, old books, old wine.
He that is jealous is not in love.
The hardest people to reach with the love of God are not the bad people. They know they are bad. They have no defense. The hardest ones to win for God are the self-righteous people.
But when women are moved and lend help, when women, who are by nature calm and controlled, give encouragement and applause, when virtuous and knowledgeable women grace the endeavor with their sweet love, then it is invincible.
If a person loves only one other person and is indifferent to all others, his love is not love but a symbiotic attachment, or an enlarged egotism.
Love has its place, as does hate. Peace has its place, as does war. Mercy has its place, as do cruelty and revenge.
You can never control who you fall in love with, even when you're in the most sad, confused time of your life. You don't fall in love with people because they're fun. It just happens.
I love America more than any other country in this world, and, exactly for this reason, I insist on the right to criticize her perpetually.
Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.
My mom and dad gave their kids the greatest gift of all - the gift of unconditional love. They cared deeply about who we would be, and much less about what we would do.
I do not want a husband who honours me as a queen, if he does not love me as a woman.
Women have simple tastes. They get pleasure out of the conversation of children in arms and men in love.
Love is a trap. When it appears, we see only its light, not its shadows.
I do not think there is any thrill that can go through the human heart like that felt by the inventor as he sees some creation of the brain unfolding to success... such emotions make a man forget food, sleep, friends, love, everything.
I can't imagine anything more worthwhile than doing what I most love. And they pay me for it.
If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
There is only one happiness in this life, to love and be loved.
It is one of the severest tests of friendship to tell your friend his faults. So to love a man that you cannot bear to see a stain upon him, and to speak painful truth through loving words, that is friendship.
It is not love that is blind, but jealousy.
Romantic love is mental illness. But it's a pleasurable one. It's a drug. It distorts reality, and that's the point of it. It would be impossible to fall in love with someone that you really saw.
Absences are a good influence in love and keep it bright and delicate.
Authenticity is the alignment of head, mouth, heart, and feet - thinking, saying, feeling, and doing the same thing - consistently. This builds trust, and followers love leaders they can trust.
The truth is I love being alive. And I love feeling free. So if I can't have those things then I feel like a caged animal and I'd rather not be in a cage. I'd rather be dead. And it's real simple. And I think it's not that uncommon.
The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference.
And a special thank you to the citizens of Massachusetts: You are paying all the taxes, creating all the jobs, raising all the children. This government is yours. Thank you for letting me serve you. I love this job.
The most important thing in the world is family and love.
Love is the most important thing in the world. Hate, we should remove from the dictionary.
Love is moral even without legal marriage, but marriage is immoral without love.
Among those whom I like or admire, I can find no common denominator, but among those whom I love, I can: all of them make me laugh.
One cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined well.
Accept that all of us can be hurt, that all of us can and surely will at times fail. Other vulnerabilities, like being embarrassed or risking love, can be terrifying, too. I think we should follow a simple rule: if we can take the worst, take the risk.
All brave men love for he only is brave who has affections to fight for, whether in the daily battle of life, or in physical contests.
I am not a vegetarian because I love animals I am a vegetarian because I hate plants.
How I Love Lucy was born? We decided that instead of divorce lawyers profiting from our mistakes, we'd profit from them.
Love is the answer to everything. It's the only reason to do anything. If you don't write stories you love, you'll never make it. If you don't write stories that other people love, you'll never make it.
Computers are magnificent tools for the realization of our dreams, but no machine can replace the human spark of spirit, compassion, love, and understanding.
The more I think about it, the more I realize there is nothing more artistic than to love others.
My mother's love has always been a sustaining force for our family, and one of my greatest joys is seeing her integrity, her compassion, her intelligence reflected in my daughters.
Love, like a chicken salad or restaurant hash, must be taken with blind faith or it loses its flavor.
So long as we love, we serve so long as we are loved by others, I should say that we are almost indispensable and no man is useless while he has a friend.
True love is eternal, infinite, and always like itself. It is equal and pure, without violent demonstrations: it is seen with white hairs and is always young in the heart.
Music is what I breath, what I love to do. It keeps me alive.
Passion is momentary love is enduring.
To fall in love is easy, even to remain in it is not difficult our human loneliness is cause enough. But it is a hard quest worth making to find a comrade through whose steady presence one becomes steadily the person one desires to be.
As much as I would love to be a person that goes to parties and has a couple of drinks and has a nice time, that doesn't work for me. I'd just rather sit at home and read, or go out to dinner with someone, or talk to someone I love, or talk to somebody that makes me laugh.
This is love: to fly toward a secret sky, to cause a hundred veils to fall each moment. First to let go of life. Finally, to take a step without feet.
I love you more than my own skin.
First and last, what is demanded of genius is love of truth.
We cannot fashion our children after our desires, we must have them and love them as God has given them to us.
To be in love is merely to be in a state of perceptual anesthesia - to mistake an ordinary young woman for a goddess.
I love to put on lotion. Sometimes I'll watch TV and go into a lotion trance for an hour. I try to find brands that don't taste bad in case anyone wants to taste me.
Prayer does not use up artificial energy, doesn't burn up any fossil fuel, doesn't pollute. Neither does song, neither does love, neither does the dance.
I love Wagner, but the music I prefer is that of a cat hung up by its tail outside a window and trying to stick to the panes of glass with its claws.
Love can do much, but duty more.
About all you can do in life is be who you are. Some people will love you for you. Most will love you for what you can do for them, and some won't like you at all.
Love consists in giving without getting in return in giving what is not owed, what is not due the other. That's why true love is never based, as associations for utility or pleasure are, on a fair exchange.
I have a love interest in every one of my films: a gun.
There is no time for cut-and-dried monotony. There is time for work. And time for love. That leaves no other time!
I don't know if I believe in love at first sight, but of course I believe in two people having chemistry right away. A girl should be really easy to talk to. When I lose track of time because we've been talking, I think that's really fun.
If there is such a thing as a good marriage, it is because it resembles friendship rather than love.
There are fathers who do not love their children there is no grandfather who does not adore his grandson.
Sex is a part of love. You shouldn't go around doing it unless you are in love.
When I see children, I see the face of God. That's why I love them so much. That's what I see.
In art as in love, instinct is enough.
Love always involves responsibility, and love always involves sacrifice. And we do not really love Christ unless we are prepared to face His task and to take up His Cross.
Listen to your inner-voice: Surround yourself with loving, nurturing people. Fall in love with your art and find yourself. Music is the great communicator.
Everything that I love is behind those gates. We have elephants, and giraffes, and crocodiles, and every kind of tigers and lions. And - and we have bus loads of kids, who don't get to see those things. They come up sick children, and enjoy it.
Love him and let him love you. Do you think anything else under heaven really matters?
A lot of women don't know how to love because there's deep reasons for them not knowing how to love. And what I mean by deep reasons is deep and dark reasons.
Romantic love is an illusion. Most of us discover this truth at the end of a love affair or else when the sweet emotions of love lead us into marriage and then turn down their flames.
Only the really plain people know about love - the very fascinating ones try so hard to create an impression that they soon exhaust their talents.
The more one does and sees and feels, the more one is able to do, and the more genuine may be one's appreciation of fundamental things like home, and love, and understanding companionship.
What I am is how I came out. No one's perfect and you just have to accept your flaws and learn to love yourself.
A man always remembers his first love with special tenderness, but after that he begins to bunch them.
Marriage is not a noun it's a verb. It isn't something you get. It's something you do. It's the way you love your partner every day.
I love cats because I enjoy my home and little by little, they become its visible soul.
There is a courtesy of the heart it is allied to love. From its springs the purest courtesy in the outward behavior.
If one is desperate for love, I suggest looking at one's friends and family and see if love is all around. If not, get a new set of friends, a new family.
All married couples should learn the art of battle as they should learn the art of making love. Good battle is objective and honest - never vicious or cruel. Good battle is healthy and constructive, and brings to a marriage the principles of equal partnership.
Basketball is my passion, I love it. But my family and friends mean everything to me. That's what's important. I need my phone so I can keep in contact with them at all times.
The first symptom of love in a young man is timidity in a girl boldness.
If Jesus was here, do you think Jesus would show me any love? Do you think Jesus would love me?
I've only been in love with a beer bottle and a mirror.
A poet is, before anything else, a person who is passionately in love with language.
I just want to do what I do best, and that's fight. I love it.
However rare true love may be, it is less so than true friendship.
The body is a house of many windows: there we all sit, showing ourselves and crying on the passers-by to come and love us.
Alcohol is like love. The first kiss is magic, the second is intimate, the third is routine. After that you take the girl's clothes off.
It is not likely that posterity will fall in love with us, but not impossible that it may respect or sympathize so a man would rather leave behind him the portrait of his spirit than a portrait of his face.
Love seeketh not itself to please, nor for itself hath any care, but for another gives its ease, and builds a Heaven in Hell's despair.
Adultery is the application of democracy to love.
Friendship at first sight, like love at first sight, is said to be the only truth.
When you start falling for somebody and you can't stop thinking about when you're going to see them again, I love that. Women are beautiful. They deserve to be cherished and respected.
The Bee Gees who are brilliant, I just love great music.
I feel that there is nothing more truly artistic than to love people.
I'm a romantic, and we romantics are more sensitive to the way people feel. We love more, and we hurt more. When we're hurt, we hurt for a long time.
What I've enjoyed most, though, is meeting people who have a real interest in food and sharing ideas with them. Good food is a global thing and I find that there is always something new and amazing to learn - I love it!
Love is the delightful interval between meeting a beautiful girl and discovering that she looks like a haddock.
I love bringing roses to a woman when she least expects it.
Don't walk in front of me, I may not follow. Don't walk behind me, I may not lead. There is only one happiness in life, to love and be loved.
I love power. But it is as an artist that I love it. I love it as a musician loves his violin, to draw out its sounds and chords and harmonies.
All happiness or unhappiness solely depends upon the quality of the object to which we are attached by love.
I might get drunk one day and fall in love or fall over a hooker outside, and I would have consummated a relationship that I couldn't necessarily believe in.
Love and work... work and love, that's all there is.
I'll come and make love to you at five o'clock. If I'm late start without me.
Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we learned here.
It sounds like a cliche but I also learnt that you're not going to fall for the right person until you really love yourself and feel good about how you are.
Love is an emotion that is based on an opinion of women that is impossible for those who have had any experience with them.
Life is short and we have never too much time for gladdening the hearts of those who are travelling the dark journey with us. Oh be swift to love, make haste to be kind.
If you have love in your life, it can make up for a great many things that are missing. If you don't have love in your life, no matter what else there is, it's not enough.
Ages of experience have taught humanity that the commitment of a husband and wife to love and to serve one another promotes the welfare of children and the stability of society.
Unless you love someone, nothing else makes any sense.
I think careful cooking is love, don't you? The loveliest thing you can cook for someone who's close to you is about as nice a valentine as you can give.
Above our life we love a steadfast friend.
Mothers are the people who love us for no good reason. And those of us who are mothers know it's the most exquisite love of all.
I've told Billy if I ever caught him cheating, I wouldn't kill him because I love his children and they need a dad. But I would beat him up. I know where all of his sports injuries are.
The distinction between children and adults, while probably useful for some purposes, is at bottom a specious one, I feel. There are only individual egos, crazy for love.
First love is first love, first marriage is first marriage, disappointment is disappointment.
So, fall asleep love, loved by me... for I know love, I am loved by thee.
The three hardest tasks in the world are neither physical feats nor intellectual achievements, but moral acts: to return love for hate, to include the excluded, and to say, 'I was wrong'.
We'll love you just the way you are if you're perfect.
If we're destroying our trees and destroying our environment and hurting animals and hurting one another and all that stuff, there's got to be a very powerful energy to fight that. I think we need more love in the world. We need more kindness, more compassion, more joy, more laughter. I definitely want to contribute to that.
We don't believe in rheumatism and true love until after the first attack.
From your parents you learn love and laughter and how to put one foot before the other. But when books are opened you discover that you have wings.
Smart women love smart men more than smart men love smart women.
A test of a people is how it behaves toward the old. It is easy to love children. Even tyrants and dictators make a point of being fond of children. But the affection and care for the old, the incurable, the helpless are the true gold mines of a culture.
Falling out of love is chiefly a matter of forgetting how charming someone is.
Our dilemma is that we hate change and love it at the same time what we really want is for things to remain the same but get better.
A flower falls, even though we love it and a weed grows, even though we do not love it.
Chemistry can be a good and bad thing. Chemistry is good when you make love with it. Chemistry is bad when you make crack with it.
When you are older you will understand how precious little things, seemingly of no value in themselves, can be loved and prized above all price when they convey the love and thoughtfulness of a good heart.
If you don't love me, it does not matter, anyway I can love for both of us.
I love my family and I miss them very much but I'm a new person now. I know a lot of people will not agree with what I've done, but it was right for me.
You don't have to love them. You just have to respect their rights.
The love of a mother is the veil of a softer light between the heart and the heavenly Father.
People love westerns worldwide. There's something fantasy-like about an individual fighting the elements. Or even bad guys and the elements. It's a simpler time. There's no organized laws and stuff.
True love doesn't come to you it has to be inside you.
Even though I love solar and love wind, like most people do, I like the renewable sources, they alone are not going to get America energy independent.
This is the America that I love. This is a great people. We can do anything. We can achieve anything. We've got a government that has gotten in the way of the American people. We're going to change that in November.
A man without ambition is dead. A man with ambition but no love is dead. A man with ambition and love for his blessings here on earth is ever so alive.
Whenever you hear a man speak of his love for his country, it is a sign that he expects to be paid for it.
Love is a portion of the soul itself, and it is of the same nature as the celestial breathing of the atmosphere of paradise.
Black as the devil, hot as hell, pure as an angel, sweet as love.
And I love that even in the toughest moments, when we're all sweating it - when we're worried that the bill won't pass, and it seems like all is lost - Barack never lets himself get distracted by the chatter and the noise. Just like his grandmother, he just keeps getting up and moving forward... with patience and wisdom, and courage and grace.
Love never dies of starvation, but often of indigestion.
Love is an endless mystery, for it has nothing else to explain it.
There is nothing I love as much as a good fight.
Just don't give up trying to do what you really want to do. Where there is love and inspiration, I don't think you can go wrong.
Everyone got kind of crazy with me mentioning I was in love with a woman.
There is a fountain of youth: it is your mind, your talents, the creativity you bring to your life and the lives of people you love. When you learn to tap this source, you will truly have defeated age.
The highest patriotism is not a blind acceptance of official policy, but a love of one's country deep enough to call her to a higher plain.
In the end, the love you take is equal to the love you make.
Love is an attempt at penetrating another being, but it can only succeed if the surrender is mutual.
People everywhere love Windows.
Love is easy, and I love writing. You can't resist love. You get an idea, someone says something, and you're in love.
Act happy, feel happy, be happy, without a reason in the world. Then you can love, and do what you will.
I love you, and because I love you, I would sooner have you hate me for telling you the truth than adore me for telling you lies.
If you're lucky enough to have a pretty girl love you and share herself and sleep with you, make that your secret. The best way to spoil love is by talking to too many people about it.
I tore myself away from the safe comfort of certainties through my love for truth - and truth rewarded me.
I say to people who care for people who are dying, if you really love that person and want to help them, be with them when their end comes close. Sit with them - you don't even have to talk. You don't have to do anything but really be there with them.
At best the family teaches the finest things human beings can learn from one another generosity and love. But it is also, all too often, where we learn nasty things like hate, rage and shame.
True love cannot be found where it does not exist, nor can it be denied where it does.
If thou desire the love of God and man, be humble, for the proud heart, as it loves none but itself, is beloved of none but itself. Humility enforces where neither virtue, nor strength, nor reason can prevail.
No woman ever hates a man for being in love with her, but many a woman hate a man for being a friend to her.
To live in this world, you must be able to do three things: to love what is mortal to hold it against your bones knowing your own life depends on it and, when the time comes to let it go, to let it go.
There isn't any formula or method. You learn to love by loving - by paying attention and doing what one thereby discovers has to be done.
Age does not protect you from love. But love, to some extent, protects you from age.
The planter, the farmer, the mechanic, and the laborer... form the great body of the people of the United States, they are the bone and sinew of the country men who love liberty and desire nothing but equal rights and equal laws.
You don't walk away if you love someone. You help the person.
Love is union with somebody, or something, outside oneself, under the condition of retaining the separateness and integrity of one's own self.
Where love rules, there is no will to power and where power predominates, there love is lacking. The one is the shadow of the other.
If one of two lovers is loyal, and the other jealous and false, how may their friendship last, for Love is slain!
Those who have the strength and the love to sit with a dying patient in the silence that goes beyond words will know that this moment is neither frightening nor painful, but a peaceful cessation of the functioning of the body.
In our minds, love and lust are really separated. It's hard to find someone that can be kind and you can trust enough to leave your kids with, and isn't afraid to throw her man up against the wall and lick him from head to toe.
Why love if losing hurts so much? I have no answers anymore only the life I have lived. The pain now is part of the happiness then.
I love to hit people. I love to.
I'm getting a wrinkle above my eyebrow because I just can't stop lifting it, and I love that you know.
We abuse land because we regard it as a commodity belonging to us. When we see land as a community to which we belong, we may begin to use it with love and respect.
I usually get myself into situations that cause sparks. I mean I'm a girl that likes the storms. I love feeling alive, I love walking out in the cold in my bare feet and feeling the ice on my toes.
It is with an old love as it is with old age a man lives to all the miseries, but is dead to all the pleasures.
There is hardly any activity, any enterprise, which is started out with such tremendous hopes and expectations, and yet which fails so regularly, as love.
It is not in the power of even the most crafty dissimulation to conceal love long, where it really is, nor to counterfeit it long where it is not.
Love and kindness are never wasted. They always make a difference. They bless the one who receives them, and they bless you, the giver.
It is a great consolation for me to remember that the Lord, to whom I had drawn near in humble and child-like faith, has suffered and died for me, and that He will look on me in love and compassion.
The impulse to cruelty is, in many people, almost as violent as the impulse to sexual love - almost as violent and much more mischievous.
I love the name of honor, more than I fear death.
Love is friendship set on fire.
You are precisely as big as what you love and precisely as small as what you allow to annoy you.
They're right to think that about me, because I'm the person most likely to sleep with my female fans, I genuinely love other women. And I think they know that.
A wedding anniversary is the celebration of love, trust, partnership, tolerance and tenacity. The order varies for any given year.
The only thing we never get enough of is love and the only thing we never give enough of is love.
Love is often nothing but a favorable exchange between two people who get the most of what they can expect, considering their value on the personality market.
You know, all that really matters is that the people you love are happy and healthy. Everything else is just sprinkles on the sundae.
Nobody loves a woman because she is handsome or ugly, stupid or intelligent. We love because we love.
Everyone can relate to love, hurt, pain, learning how to forgive, needing to get over, needing the power of God in their life.
I have been astonished that men could die martyrs for religion - I have shuddered at it. I shudder no more - I could be martyred for my religion - Love is my religion - I could die for that.
When I sing, I feel like when you're first in love. It's more than sex. It's that point two people can get to they call love, when you really touch someone for the first time, but it's gigantic, multiplied by the whole audience. I feel chills.
A woman has two smiles that an angel might envy, the smile that accepts a lover before words are uttered, and the smile that lights on the first born babe, and assures it of a mother's love.
A lot of times black folks look for love in all the wrong places. You're always looking for somebody to love you, be accepted, and there's the insecurities that are even transmitted through rap. Everyone is trying to aim to please too much.
Men shrink less from offending one who inspires love than one who inspires fear.
I think the biggest disease the world suffers from in this day and age is the disease of people feeling unloved. I know that I can give love for a minute, for half an hour, for a day, for a month, but I can give. I am very happy to do that, I want to do that.
The love of learning, the sequestered nooks, And all the sweet serenity of books.
Don't threaten me with love, baby. Let's just go walking in the rain.
Men often pass from love to ambition, but they seldom come back again from ambition to love.
If you cannot inspire a woman with love of you, fill her above the brim with love of herself all that runs over will be yours.
I understand now that the vulnerability I've always felt is the greatest strength a person can have. You can't experience life without feeling life. What I've learned is that being vulnerable to somebody you love is not a weakness, it's a strength.
If a man is truly in love, the most beautiful woman in the world couldn't take him away. Maybe for a few days, but not forever.
If I think more about death than some other people, it is probably because I love life more than they do.
Love is the river of life in the world.
The love that lasts longest is the love that is never returned.
I love quotations because it is a joy to find thoughts one might have, beautifully expressed with much authority by someone recognized wiser than oneself.
If so many men, so many minds, certainly so many hearts, so many kinds of love.
Love is anterior to life, posterior to death, initial of creation, and the exponent of breath.
Tell the truth. Sing with passion. Work with laughter. Love with heart. 'Cause that's all that matters in the end.
Getting divorced just because you don't love a man is almost as silly as getting married just because you do.
Give a little love to a child, and you get a great deal back.
It is with true love as it is with ghosts everyone talks about it, but few have seen it.
He who knows no hardships will know no hardihood. He who faces no calamity will need no courage. Mysterious though it is, the characteristics in human nature which we love best grow in a soil with a strong mixture of troubles.
Love is never defeated, and I could add, the history of Ireland proves it.
I love chicken. I would eat chicken fingers on Thanksgiving if it were socially acceptable.
In friendship as well as love, ignorance very often contributes more to our happiness than knowledge.
Neither a lofty degree of intelligence nor imagination nor both together go to the making of genius. Love, love, love, that is the soul of genius.
The motto of chivalry is also the motto of wisdom to serve all, but love only one.
When we ask for love, we don't ask others to be fair to us-but rather to care for us, to be considerate of us. There is a world of difference here between demanding justice... and begging or pleading for love.
He who does not love his own language is worse than an animal and smelly fish.
The secret of a happy marriage is finding the right person. You know they're right if you love to be with them all the time.
We always love those who admire us, but we do not always love those whom we admire.
When people are lame, they love to blame.
When you're taught to love everyone, to love your enemies, then what value does that place on love?
A James Cagney love scene is one where he lets the other guy live.
We are nearer loving those who hate us than those who love us more than we wish.
If love is the treasure, laughter is the key.
I am deeply grateful to the citizens of Sarajevo and the Sarajevo Canton assembly for bestowing upon me this incredible honor of citizenship. I am so proud to now be a part of such an extraordinary part of the world and fellow citizen to the people I deeply love and admire.
You will reciprocally promise love, loyalty and matrimonial honesty. We only want for you this day that these words constitute the principle of your entire life and that with the help of divine grace you will observe these solemn vows that today, before God, you formulate.
My trust in a higher power that wants me to survive and have love in my life, is what keeps me moving forward.
If you love something let it go free. If it doesn't come back, you never had it. If it comes back, love it forever.
I love my children beyond all reason. They're my joy, even when they're wild with kid energy.
We may sooner be brought to love them that hate us, than them that love us more than we would have them do.
Little children are still the symbol of the eternal marriage between love and duty.
Love has its own time, its own season, and its own reasons from coming and going. You cannot bribe it or coerce it or reason it into staying. You can only embrace it when it arrives and give it away when it comes to you.
Love does not alter the beloved, it alters itself.
We pardon to the extent that we love.
This love is silent.
To love someone means to see him as God intended him.
Love can no more continue without a constant motion than fire can and when once you take hope and fear away, you take from it its very life and being.
Let us be about setting high standards for life, love, creativity, and wisdom. If our expectations in these areas are low, we are not likely to experience wellness. Setting high standards makes every day and every decade worth looking forward to.
Art is not the application of a canon of beauty but what the instinct and the brain can conceive beyond any canon. When we love a woman we don't start measuring her limbs.
Just as in earthly life lovers long for the moment when they are able to breathe forth their love for each other, to let their souls blend in a soft whisper, so the mystic longs for the moment when in prayer he can, as it were, creep into God.
Romance is tempestuous. Love is calm.
Where love is concerned, too much is not even enough.
I really love idiot, enlightened characters - these characters who fail to engage with the drama of their immediate circumstances they fail to be reactive and enrolled by drama as it happens around them.
This is the miracle that happens every time to those who really love: the more they give, the more they possess.
The main facts in human life are five: birth, food, sleep, love and death.
A religious man is a person who holds God and man in one thought at one time, at all times, who suffers harm done to others, whose greatest passion is compassion, whose greatest strength is love and defiance of despair.
I did not just fall in love. I made a parachute jump.
Metaphors are dangerous. Love begins with a metaphor. Which is to say, love begins at the point when a woman enters her first word into our poetic memory.
At the end of the day, you know, love does not happen between two perfect people as much as we would wish.
Even if a unity of faith is not possible, a unity of love is.
I had always loved beautiful and artistic things, though before leav
It takes vision and courage to create-it takes faith and courage to prove.
One of my favorite philosophical tenets is that people will agree with you only if they already agree with you. You do not change people's minds.
Technological change defines the horizon of our material world as it shapes the limiting conditions of what is possible and what is barely imaginable. It erodes ... assumptions about the nature of our reality, the ?pattern? in which we dwell, and lays open new choices.
Good men have the fewest fears.  He has but one great fear who fears to do wrong; he has a thousand who has overcome it.
Mind unemployed is mind unenjoyed.
It is ever the invisible that is the object of our profoundest worship.  With the lover it is not the seen but the unseen that he muses upon.
When you love someone all your saved-up wishes start coming out.
Love is a great beautifier.
The tragedy of life is not that man loses but that he almost wins.
Whoso loves Believes the impossible.
If thou must love me, let it be for nought<
How good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ all the heart and the soul and the senses forever in joy!
Love is energy of life.
This is not a contest between persons. The humblest citizen in all the land, when clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts of error. I come to you in defense of a cause as holy as the cause of liberty - the cause of humanity.
Weep not that the world changes - did it keep a stable, changeless state, it were a cause indeed to weep. 
We are restless because of incessant change, but we would be frightened if change were stopped. 
Everything changes, nothing remains without change. 
There are five things which no one is able to accomplish in this world:  first, to cease growing old when he is growing old;  second, to cease being sick;  third, to cease dying;  fourth, to deny dissolution when there is dissolution;  fifth, to deny non-being.
There are five things which no one is able to accomplish in this world:  first, to cease growing old when he is growing old;  second, to cease being sick;  third, to cease dying;  fourth, to deny dissolution when there is dissolution;  fifth, to deny non-being.
To enjoy good health, to bring true happiness to one's family, to bring peace to all, one must first discipline and control one's own mind.  If a man can control his mind he can find the way to Enlightenment, and all wisdom and virtue will naturally come to him.
I was always an early riser.  Happy the man who is!  Every morning day comes to him with a virgin's love, full of bloom and freshness.  The youth of nature is contagious, like the gladness of a happy child.
Happiness and virtue rest upon each other; the best are not only the happiest, but the happiest are usually the best.
If you wish to be loved, show more of your faults than your virtues.
Among a people generally corrupt liberty cannot long exist.
If you live to the age of a hundred, you have it made because very very few people die past the age of a hundred.
I'm at that age now where just putting my cigar in its holder is a thrill.
All progress is based upon the universal innate desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its income.
Life is a quarry, out of which we are to mold and chisel and complete a character.
Death, so called, is a thing which makes men weep, And yet a third of life is passed in sleep.
'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark our coming, and look brighter when we come.
Yes, Love indeed is light from heaven;  A spark of that immortal fire with angels shared, by Allah given to lift from earth our low desire. 
Let none think to fly the danger for soon or late love is his own avenger.
You cannot create experience. You must undergo it.
You are forgiven for your happiness and your successes only if you generously consent to share them.
An intellectual is someone whose mind watches itself.
Youth is to all the glad season of life; but often only by what it hopes, not by what it attains, or what it escapes.
Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.
"I'm very brave generally," he went on in a low voice: "only today I happen to have a headache." 
We must adjust to changing times and still hold to unchanging principles. 
When it is not necessary to change, it is necessary not to change.
An angry man opens his mouth and shuts his eyes.
'Tis said of love that it sometimes goes, sometimes flies; runs with one, walks gravely with another; turns a third into ice, and sets a fourth in a flame: it wounds one, another it kills: like lightning it begins and ends in the same moment: it makes that fort yield at night which it besieged but in the morning; for there is no force able to resist it.
The grand essentials of happiness are: something to do, something to love, and something to hope for. 
Change means movement. Movement means friction. Only in the frictionless vacuum of a nonexistent abstract world can movement or change occur without that abrasive friction of conflict.
The human race, to which so many of my readers belong, has been playing at children's games from the beginning, and will probably do it till the end, which is a nuisance for the few people who grow up. And one of the games which it is most attached is called, "Keep tomorrow dark," and which is also named (by the rustics in Shropshire, I have no doubt) "Cheat the Prophet." The players listen very carefully and respectfully to all that the clever men have to say about what is to happen in the next generation. The players then wait until all the clever men are dead, and bury them nicely. Then they go and do something else. That is all. For a race of simple tastes, however, it is great fun.
Brave men are all vertebrates; they have their softness on the surface and their toughness in the middle.
Courage is almost a contradiction in terms: it means a strong desire to live taking the form of readiness to die.
When you have really exhausted an experience you always reverence and love it.
The way to love anything is to realize that it might be lost.
Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while adversity is often as the rain of spring. 
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
Change is certain.  Peace is followed by disturbances; departure of evil men by their return.  Such recurrences should not constitute occasions for sadness but realities for awareness, so that one may be happy in the interim.
The way of the Creative works through change and transformation, so that each thing receives its true nature and destiny and comes into permanent accord with the Great Harmony:  this is what furthers and what perseveres.
...Insidious is the cry for 'revolution,' at a time when not even the germs of new institutions exist, let alone the moral and political consciousness that could lead to a basic modification of social life. If there will be a 'revolution' in America today, it will no doubt be a move towards some variety of fascism. We must guard against the kind of revolutionary rhetoric that would have had Karl Marx burn down the British Museum because it was merely part of a repressive society. It would be criminal to overlook the serious flaws and inadequacies in our institutions, or to fail to utilize the substantial degree of freedom that most of us enjoy, within the framework of these flawed institutions, to modify them or even replace them by a better social order. One who pays some attention to history will not be surprised if those who cry most loudly that we must smash and destroy are later found among the administrators of some new system of repression.
This is no time for ease and comfort. It is the time to dare and endure. 
Love is the word used to label the sexual excitement of the young, the habituation of the middle-aged, and the mutual dependence of the old.
Religions change; Beer and Wine remain.
Avarice in old age is foolish; for what can be more absurd than to increase our provisions for the road the nearer we approach to our journey's end.
That last day does not bring extinction to us, but change of place.
The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.
We think a happy life consists in tranquility of mind.
Nor has he spent his life badly who has passed it in privacy.
Life is but thought.
Sympathy constitutes friendship; but in love there is a sort of antipathy, or opposing passion. Each strives to be the other, and both together make up one whole.
You will never do anything in this world without courage.  It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor.
The intoxication of anger, like that of the grape, shows us to others, but hides us from ourselves.
Happiness, that grand mistress of the ceremonies in the dance of life, impels us through all its mazes and meanderings, but leads none of us by the same route.
In life we shall find many men that are great, and some that are good, but very few men that are both great and good.
Friendship often ends in love; but love in friendship-never.
They must often change who would be constant in happiness or wisdom.
If I am walking with two other men, each of them will serve as my teacher.  I will pick out the good points of the one and imitate them, and the bad points of the other and correct them in myself. 
You say that love is nonsense....I tell you it is no such thing. For weeks and months it is a steady physical pain, an ache about the heart, never leaving one, by night or by day; a long strain on one's nerves like toothache orrheumatism, not intolerable at any one instant, but exhausting by its steady drain on the strength.
Complainers change their complaints, but they never reduce the amount of time spent in complaining.
Excuses change nothing, but make everyone feel better.
Change often makes accepted customs into crimes.
Change is upsetting. Repetition is tedious. Three cheers for variation!
I change my opinions often, but not my way of thinking.
Every man of courage is a man of his word.
Love lives on hope, and dies when hope is dead; It is a flame which sinks for lack of fuel.
Love is the extra effort we make in our dealings with those whom we do not like and once you understand that, you understand all. This idea that love overtakes you is nonsense. This is but a polite manifestation of sex. To love another you have to undertake some fragment of their destiny.
It will be found an unjust and unwise jealousy to deprive a man of his natural liberty upon the supposition he may abuse it.
Age ... is a matter of feeling, not of years.
The poet ranks far below the painter in the representation of visible things, and far below the musician in that of invisible thin
History shows that the human mind, fed by constant accessions of knowledge, periodically grows too large for its theoretical coverings, and bursts them asunder to appear in new habiliments, as the feeding and growing grub, at intervals, casts its too narrow skin and assumes another.... Truly the imago state of Man seems to be terribly distant, but every moult is a step gained.
Never swap horses crossing a stream.
Happiness is always a by-product. It is probably a matter of temperament, and for anything I know it may be glandular. But it is not something that can be demanded from life, and if you are not happy you had better stop worrying about it and see what treasures you can pluck from your own brand of unhappiness.
Love is not enough. It must be the foundation, the cornerstone- but not the complete structure. It is much too pliable, too yielding.
A great obstacle to happiness is to anticipate too great a happiness. 
Love does not consist in gazing at each other but in looking outward together in the same direction.
We cease loving ourselves if no one loves us.
Youth, what man's age is like to be, doth show; We may our ends by our beginnings know.
Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid...for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
Complete adaptation to environment means death. The essential point in all response is the desire to control environment. 
Few cross the river of time and are able to reach non-being.  Most of them run up and down only on this side of the river.  But those who when they know the law follow the path of the law, they shall reach the other shore and go beyond the realm of death.
The traveller has reached the end of the journey!
Change begets change. Nothing propagates so fast. If a man habituated to a narrow circle of cares and pleasures, out of which he seldom travels, step beyond it, though for never so brief a space, his departure from the monotonous scene on which he has been an actor of importance would seem to be the signal for instant confusion.... The mine which Time has slowly dug beneath familiar objects is sprung in an instant; and what was rock before, becomes but sand and dust.
Unable are the Loved to die For Love is Immortality.
Love, with very young people, is a heartless business. We drink at that age from thirst, or to get drunk; it is only later in life that we occupy ourselves with the individuality of our wine.
Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret. 
Change is inevitable in a progressive country. Change is constant.
In a progressive country change is constant; ... change ... is inevitable.
Seeing much, suffering much, and studying much, are the three pillars of learning. 
You are young at any age if you're planning for tomorrow.
Aging is bad, but consider the alternative.
I change, and so do women too;<
The one who loves least controls the relationship.
If there is anything better than to be loved it is loving. 
The path of immortality is hard, and only a few find it.  The rest await the Great Day when the wheels of the universe shall be stopped and the immortal sparks shall escape from the sheaths of substance.  Woe unto those who wait, for they must return again, unconscious and unknowing, to the seed-ground of stars, and await a new beginning.
Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies.
Love is agrowing, to full constant light; and his first minute, after noon, is night.
O, if thou car'st not whom I love alas, thou lov'st not me.
Who soweth good seed shall surely reap; The year grows rich as it groweth old, And life's latest sands are its sands of gold!
Everything that can be invented has been invented. 
Life has a way of setting things in order and leaving them be. Very tidy, is life.
The work of the world is done on hate. All work done well is well done only when persons hate work done shoddily. Justice can exist only when injustice is hated, laws only when lawlessness is hated, and education only when ignorance is hated. Every improvement this world has ever known was brought about because someone hated intolerable conditions.
Change is an easy panacea. It takes character to stay in one place and be happy there. 
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
Sickness is a belief, which must be annihilated by the divine Mind.
Age does not depend upon years, but upon temperament and health. Some men are born old, and some never grow so.
Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.
Technological progress is like an axe in the hands of a pathological criminal. 
Gravity is not responsible for people falling in love.
Every artist writes his own autobiography.
A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesman and philosophers and divines.
Half a man's wisdom goes with his courage. 
What a new face courage puts on everything! 
Every man has his own courage, and is betrayed because he seeks in himself the courage of other persons.
To fill the hour - that is happiness.
To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men - that is genius.
All mankind loves a lover.
Some have been thought brave because they were afraid to run away.
Liberty cannot be preserved without a general knowledge among the people.
Love won't be tampered with, love won't go away. Push it to one side and it creeps to the other.
All is change; all yields its place and goes.
Youth is the best time to be rich, and the best time to be poor.
This is courage in a man: to bear unflinchingly what heaven sends.
Of mortals there is no one who is happy. If wealth flows in upon one, one may be perhaps Luckier than one's neighbor, but still not happy. 
Happiness is brief.  It will not stay.  God batters at its sails.
Love must not touch the marrow of the soul. Our affections must be breakable chains that we can cast them off or tighten them.
He is not a lover who does not love forever. 
The only real failure in life is not to be true to the best one knows.
The aim of every artist is to arrest motion, which is life, by artificial means and hold it fixed so that a hundred years later, when a stranger looks at it, it moves again since it is life.
Our tragedy is a general and universal physical fear so long sustained by now that we can even bear it...the basest of all things is to be afraid.
Now, in reality, the world have paid too great a compliment to criti
I know I'm going to get old and be one of those crazy women who sits on balconies and spits on people and screams, 'Get a haircut!' I know this, and I don't really fear it. I'd just like to move toward it with as much grace and dignity as possible.
Pleasure of love lasts but a moment, Pain of love lasts a lifetime.
A lost battle is a battle one thinks one has lost.
Adolescence: a stage between infancy and adultery.
None of our men are "experts." We have most unfortunately found it necessary to get rid of a man as soon as he thinks himself an expert because no one ever considers himself expert if he really knows his job. A man who knows a job sees so much more to be done than he has done, that he is always pressing forward and never gives up an instant of thought to how good and how efficient he is. Thinking always ahead, thinking always of trying to do more, brings a state of mind in which nothing is impossible. The moment one gets into the "expert" state of mind a great number of things become impossible.
Works of art, in my opinion, are the only objects in the material universe to possess internal order, and that is why, though I don't believe that only art matters, I do believe in Art for Art's sake.
A person is never happy except at the price of some ignorance. 
We do not know what to do with this short life, yet we want another which will be eternal.
He that falls in love with himself will have no rivals.
Love makes the time pass. Time makes love pass.
The goal of all life is death.
What we call happiness in the strictest sense comes from the (preferably sudden) satisfaction of needs which have been dammed up to a high degree. 
Technology [is] the knack of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it.
There is hardly any activity, any enterprise, which is started out with such tremendous hopes and expectations, and yet which fails so regularly, as love
Love is union with somebody, or something, outside oneself, under the condition of retaining the separateness and integrity of one's ownself. 
Inventions reached their limit long ago, and I see no hope for further development.
Poetry begins in delight and ends in wisdom.
They would not find me changed from him they knew - only more sure of all I thought was true.
Happiness makes up in height for what it lacks in length. 
No man can be happy without a friend, nor be sure of his friend till he is unhappy.
Hatred is blind, as well as love. 
I count him braver who overcomes his desires than him who conquers his enemies; for the hardest victory is over self.
Happiness depends upon ourselves.
Different men seek after happiness indifferent ways and by different means, and so make for themselves different modes of life and forms of government. 
Adaptability is not imitation. It means power of resistance and assimilation.
A coward is incapable of exhibiting love; it is the prerogative of the brave.
If wrinkles must be written on our brows, let them not be written upon the heart. The spirit should never grow old.
Art is either a plagiarist or a revolutionist.
Art is a collaboration between God and the artist, and the less the artist does the better.
The foods that prolong life and increase purity, vigour, health, cheerfulness, and happiness are those that are delicious, soothing, substantial and agreeable...Foods that are bitter, sour, salt, over-hot, pungent, dry and burning produce unhappiness, repentance and disease.
All change is not growth; all movementis not forward.
What I possess I would gladly retain.  Change amuses the mind, yet scarcely profits.
Death is a commingling of eternity with time; in the death of a good man, eternity is seen looking through time.
The most happy man is he who knows how to bring into relation the end and beginning of his life.
Beware of dissipating your powers;  strive constantly to concentrate them.  Genius thinks it can do whatever it sees others doing, but it is sure to repent every ill-judged outlay.
For a man to achieve all that is demanded of him he must regard himself as greater than he is.
Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.
Life is the childhood of our immortality.
How blest is he who crowns, in shades like these, A youth of labor with an age of ease.
Today I begin to understand what love must be, if it exists.... When we are parted, we each feel the lack of the other half of ourselves. We are incomplete like a book in two volumes of which the first has been lost. That is what I imagine love to be: incompleteness in absence.
It is change, continuing change, inevitable change, that is the dominant factor in society today. No sensible decision can be made any longer without taking into account not only the world as it is, but the world as it will be.... This, in turn, means that our statesmen, our businessmen, our everyman must take on a science fictional way of thinking.
Like the measles, love is most dangerous when it comes late in life.
Nature scarcely ever gives us the very best; for that we must have recourse to art.
Art is either plagiarism or revolution.
I refuse to admit that I am more than fifty-two, even if that does make my sons illegitima
Man has the possibility of existence after death.  But possibility is one thing and the realization of the possibility is quite a different thing.
Courage that grows from constitution often forsakes a man when he has occasion for it courage which arises from a sense of duty acts in a uniform manner. 
Among those whom I like or admire, I can find no common denominator, but among those whom I love, I can: all of them make me laugh.
Experience teaches that men are often so much governed by what they are accustomed to see and practice, that the simplest and most obvious improvements, in the most ordinary occupations, are adopted with hesitation, reluctance, and by slow gradations. Men would resist changes, so long as even a bare support could be ensured by an adherence to ancient courses, and perhaps even longer.
Society can overlook murder, adultery or swindling; it can never forgive the preaching of a new gosp
I'm now at the age where I've got to prove that I'm just as good as I never was.
Give us the fortitude to endure the things which cannot be changed, and the courage to change the things which should be changed, and the wisdom to know one from the other.
And I hear from the outgoing ship in the bay  The song of the sailors in glee:  So I think of the luminous footprints that bore  The comfort o'er dark Galilee,  And wait for the signal to go to the shore,  To the ship that is waiting for me.
To be happy, we must be true to nature and carry our age along with us. 
The art of life is to know how to enjoy a little and to endure very much.
Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.
When I grow up I want to be a little boy.
Courage is grace under pressure. 
Everything flows; nothing remains.
Change alone is unchanging.
You're an actor, are you? Well, all that means is: you are irresponsible, irrational, romantic, and incapable of handling an adult emotion or a universal concept without first reducing it to something personal, material, sensational
This man is freed from servile bands,  Of hope to rise, or fear to fall;  Lord of himself, though not of lands,  And leaving nothing, yet hath all.
All human discoveries seem to be made only for the purpose of confirming more and more strongly the truths that come from on high and are contained in the sacred writings. 
Happiness is not a destination. It is a method of life. 
Extreme remedies are very appropriate for extreme diseases.
Men do not quit playing because they grow old; they grow old because they quit playing.
Change is not made without inconvenience, even from worse to better.
You know you're getting old when the candles cost more than the cake.
Pale death, with impartial step, knocks at the hut of the poor and the towers of kings.
Who then is free?  The wise man who can command himself.
Suffering is but another name for the teaching of experience, which is the parent of instruction and the schoolmaster of life. 
So long as we do not blow our brains out, we have decided life is worth living.
The love we give away is the only love we keep. 
It is pretty hard to tell what does bring happiness; perty and wealth have both failed. 
He that will not apply new remedies must expect new evils. 
There is a wisdom in this beyond the rules of physic:  a man's own observation what he finds good of and what he finds hurt of is the best physic to preserve health.
Never have partners.
There is nothing more powerful than an idea whose time has come.
Change your opinions, keep to your principles; change your leaves, keep intact your roots.
Liberation is not deliverance.
The charm of history and its enigmatic lesson consist in the fact that, from age to age, nothing changes and yet everything is completely different.
I can sympathise with people's pains, but not with their pleasures. There is something curiously boring about somebody else's happiness.
It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
If voting changed anything, they'd make it illegal.
Happiness is not a reward-it is a consequence. Suffering is not a punishment - it is a result.
The greatest test of courage on earth is to bear defeat without losing heart.
There is a certain relief in change, even though it be from bad to worse! As I have often found in travelling in a stagecoach, that it is often a comfort to shift one's position, and be bruised in a new place. 
One man with courage makes a majority.
Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.
Love's like the measles, all the worse when it comes late.
I'd rather give my life than be afraid to give it. 
Bravery has no place where it can avail nothing. 
We are long before we are convinced that happiness is never to be found, and each believes it possessed by others, to keep alive the hope of obtaining it for himself.
A man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself.
Do you want me to tell you something really subversive? Love is everything it's cracked up to be. That's why people are so cynical about it. . . . It really is worth fighting for, being brave for, risking everything for. And the trouble is, if you don't risk anything, you risk even more.
I cannot love as I have loved,  And yet I know not why;  It is the one great woe of life  To feel all feeling die.
The atom, being for all practical purposes the stable unit of the physical plane, is a constantly changing vortex of reactions.
Misdirected life force is the activity in disease process.  Disease has no energy save what it borrows from the life of the organism.  It is by adjusting the life force that healing must be brought about, and it is the sun as transformer and distributor of primal spiritual energy that must be utilized in this process, for life and the sun are so intimately connected.
A mortal lives not through that breath that flows in and that flows out.  The source of his life is another and this causes the breath to flow.
We are sinful not merely because we have eaten of the tree of knowledge, but also because we have not eaten of the tree of life.
The more things change, the more they remain the same. 
When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.
No matter how dull, or how mean, or how wise a man is, he feels that happiness is his indisputable right. 
Life beats down and crushes the soul and art reminds you that you have o
The brave man is not he who feels nofear. For that were stupid and irrational. But he, whose noble soul its fears subdues, and bravely dares the danger nature shrinks from.
Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future.
A nation which has forgotten the quality of courage which in the past has been brought to public life is not as likely to insis tupon or regard that quality in its chosen leaders today--and in fact we have forgotten.
Few will have the greatness to bend history itself; but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation.
The world hates change, yet it is the only thing that has brought progress.
The experience of life consists of the experience which the spirit has of itself in matter and as matter, in mind and as mind, in emotion, as emotion, etc.
Strange - is it not? - that of the myriads who Before us passed the door of Darkness through, Not one returns to tell us of the road Which to discover we must travel too.
The world goes up and the world goes down, And the sunshine follows the rain;  And yesterday's sneer and yesterday's frown Can never come over again.
The quintessential revolution is that of the spirit, born of an intellectual conviction of the need for change in those mental attitides and values which shape the course of a nation's development. A revolution whichaims merely at changing official policies and institutions with a view to an improvement in material conditions has little chance of genuine success. Without a revolution in spirit, the forces which had produced inequities of the old order would continue to be operative, posing a constant threat to the process of reform and regeneration. It is not enough merely to call for freedom, democracy and human rights. There has to be a united determination to persevere in the struggle, to make sacrifices in the name of enduring truths, to resist the corrupting influences of desire, ill will, ignorance, and fear.
Love lessens a woman's delicacy and increases a man's.
O tyrant love, when held by you, We may to prudence bid adieu. 
Age is a tyrant, who forbids, at the penalty of life, all the pleasures of youth.
Perfect valour consists in doing without witnesses that which we would be capable of doing before everyone. 
There is only one sort of love, but there are a thousand copies.
True love is like ghosts, which everybody talks about and few have seen.
Sometimes we are less unhappy in being deceived by those we love, than in being undeceived by them. 
Life's more amusing than we thought.
Genius always gives its best at first;  prudence, at last.
I've always thought that the most extraordinary special effect you could do is to buy a child at the moment of its birth, sit it on a little chair and say, "You'll have three score years and ten," and take a photograph every minute. "And we'll watch you and photograph you for ten years after you die, then we'll run the film." Wouldn't that be extraordinary? We'd watch this thing get bigger and bigger, and flower to become extraordinary and beautiful, then watch it crumble, decay, and rot. 
Think before you speak. Read before you think. This will give you something to think about that you didn't make up yourself a wise move at any age, but most especially at seventeen, when you are in the greatest danger of coming to annoying conclusions.
Should you be a teenager blessed with uncommon good looks, document this state of affairs by the taking of photographs. It is the only way anyone will ever believe you in years to come.
Remember that as a teenager you are at the last stage in your life when you will be happy to hear that the phone is for you.
You can't crush ideas by suppressing them. You can only crush them by ignoring them.
It is sobering to consider that when Mozart was my age he had already been dead for a year.
Happiness isn't something you experience; it's something you remember. 
Everyone is a genius at least once a year; a real genius has his original ideas closer together.
In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true either is true or becomes true.
The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we mustrise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew.
Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
To a person in love, the value of the individual is intuitively known. Love needs no logic for its missi
Abroad in the world today is a monstrous falsehood, a consummate fabrication, to which all social agencies have loaned themselves and into which most men, women, and children have been seduced..."the Eleventh Commandment"; for such, indeed, has become the injunction: You Must Adjust.
The four stages of man are: Infancy, Childhood, Adolescence and obsolescence.
We fear things in proportion to our ignorance of them.
By the data to date, there i sonly one animal in the Galaxy dangerous to man man himself. So he must supply his own indispensable competition. He has no enemy to help him.
For age is opportunity no less Than youth itself, though in another dress, And as the evening twilight fades away The sky is filled with stars, invisible by day.
Joy, temperance, and repose, slam the door on the doctor's nose.
Life is real!  Life is earnest!  And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest,  Was not spoken of the soul.
Love gives itself; it is not bought.
We look at death through the cheap-glazed windows of the flesh, and believe him the monster which the flawed and cracked glass represents him.
The gods conceal from men the happiness of death, that they may endure life.
Last, but by no means least, courage-moral courage, the courage of one's convictions, the courage to see things through. The world is in a constant conspiracy against the brave. It's the age-old struggle-the roar of the crowd on one side and the voice of your conscience on the other.
It must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to manage, than the creation of a new system. For the initiator has the enmity of all who would profit by the preservation of the old institutions and merely lukewarm defenders in those who would gain by the new ones. 
A new system is a hard thing to put into place, it is opposed by those that would be disadvantaged by the new system and it receives no support from those that would benefit. 
There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the leadin the introduction of a new order to things.
Freedom is the right to one's dignity as a man.
We begin to die as soon as we are born, and the end is linked to the beginning.
This was love at first sight, love everlasting: a feeling unknown, unhoped for, unexpected-in so far as it could be a matter of conscious awareness; it took entire possession of him, and he understood, with joyous amazement, that this was for life.
We don't love qualities, we love persons; sometimes by reason of their defects as well as of their qualities.
It is better to be happy for a momen tand be burned up with beauty than to live a long time and be bored all the while.
Anyone can get old. All you have to do is live long enough.
A man's only as old as the woman he feels.
They change, and we, who pass like foam,<
We are not the same persons this year as last; nor are those we love. It is a happy chance if we, changing, continue to love a changed person.
Change is the only constant. Hanging on is the only sin.
The problem is not whether business will survive in competition with business, but whether business will survive at all in the face of social change.
The older I grow the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdo
Of all escape mechanisms, death is the most efficient.
The basic fact about human existence is not that it is a tragedy, but that it is a bore. It is not so much a war as an endless standing in line.
Love: the delusion that one woman differs from another.
The only freedom which deserves the name is that of pursuing our own good, in our own way, so long as we do not attempt to deprive others of theirs, or impede their efforts to obtain it.
I have learned to seek my happiness by limiting my desires, rather than in attempting to satisfy them.
My candle burns at both ends; it will not last the night; but ah, my foes, and oh, my friends - it gives a lovely light!
The new always carries with it the sense of violation, of sacrilege. What is dead is sacred; what is new, that is, different, is evil, dangerous, or subversive. 
Death is delightful.  Death is dawn, The waking from a weary night Of fevers unto truth and light.
Life's a tough proposition, and the first hundred years are the hardest.
It is not death, it is dying that alarms me.
If you don't know how to die, don't worry; Nature will tell you what to do on the spot, fully and adequately.  She will do this job perfectly for you; don't bother your head about it.
Death, they say, acquits us of all obligations.
'Tis the sharpness of our mind that gives the edge to our pains and pleasures.
My trade and art is to live.
The mind petrifies if a circle be drawn around it, and it can hardly be that dogma draws a circle round the mind.
Old age is life's parody.
All that's bright must fade,  The brightest still the fleetest;  All that's sweet was made  But to be lost when sweetest.
Romantic love is an illusion. Most of us discover this truth at the end of a love affair or else when the sweet emotions of love lead us into marriage and then turn down their flames.
The hunger for love is much more difficult to removethan the hunger for bread. 
Western society has accepted as unquestionable a technological imperative that is quite as arbitrary as the most primitive taboo: not merely the duty to foster invention and constantly to create technological novelties, but equally the duty to surrender to these novelties unconditionally, just because they are offered, without respect to their human consequences. 
Property is unstable, and youth perishes in a moment.  Life itself is held in the grinning fangs of Death, Yet men delay to obtain release from the world.  Alas, the conduct of mankind is surprising.
An anthill increases by accumulation.  Medicine is consumed by distribution.  That which is feared lessens by association.  This is the thing to understand.
Those who speak ill of the spiritual life, Although they come and go by day, Are like the smith's bellows: They take breath but are not alive.
Courage is like love; it must have hope for nourishment.
Progress might have been all right once but it has gone on too long.
A man reserves his true and deepest love not for the species of woman in whose company he finds himself electrified and enkindled, but for that one in whose company he may feel tenderly drowsy.
The art of a people is a true mirror to their minds.
Human life is as evanescent as the morning dew or a flash of lightning.
But that's what being an artist <i>is</i>
People demand freedom only when they have no power.
There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness.
Every artist dips his brush in his own soul, and paints his own nat
The foolish man seeks happiness in the distance, the wise grows it under his feet. 
To array a man's will against his sickness is the supreme art of medicine.
There are three schoolmasters for everybody that will employ them - the senses, intelligent companions, and books. 
I never knew how to worship until I knew how to love.
I love a hand that meets my own with a grasp that causes some sensation.
Fortune and love favor the brave.
Courage conquers all things: it even gives strength to the body. 
Everyone wishes that the man whom he fears would perish.
Love is a driver, bitter and fierce if you fight and resist him, Easy-going enough once you acknowledge his power.
Love and dignity cannot share the same abode. 
I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and row brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.
He that would make his own liberty secure must guard even his enemy from oppression.
Life is like music, it must be composed by ear, feeling and instinct, not by rule.  Nevertheless one had better know the rules, for they sometimes guide in doubtful cases, though not often.
Ducking for apples; change one letter and it's the story of my life.
We conceal it from ourselves in vain--we must always love something. In those matters seemingly removed from love, the feeling is secretly to be found, and man cannot possibly live for a moment without it.
It is easy to be brave from a safe distance.
True courage is like a kite; a contrary wind raises it higher. 
One must act in painting as in life, directly.
The universal medicine for the Soul is the Supreme Reason and Absolute Justice; for the mind, mathematical and practical Truth; for the body, the Quintessence, a combination of light and gold.
A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it. 
Keep what you have; the known evil is best.
He whom the gods love dies young, while he is in health, has his senses and his judgments sound.
No man in the world has more courage than the man who can stop after eating one peanut. 
A bee is not a busier animal than a blockhe
Health consists with temperance alone.
Love, free as air at sight of human ties, Spreads his light wings, and in a moment flies.
Deploring change is the unchangeable habit of all Englishmen.
In ecology, as in economics, TANSTAAFL(There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch) is intended to warn that every gain is won at some cost. Failure to recognize the 'no free lunch' law causes the buffalo hunter mentality syndrome the unthinking assumption that there will always be plenty because there always has been plenty.
What some call health, if purchased by perpetual anxiety about diet, isn't much better than tedious disease.
Even if happiness forgets you a little bit, never completely forget about it. 
A change in the weather is sufficient to recreate the world and ourselves.
Let us be grateful to people who make us happy; they are the charming gardeners who make our souls blossom.
The woman cries before the wedding, the man after. 
The most dangerous food is a wedding cake. 
Ignorant people see life as either existence or non-existence, but wise men see it beyond both existence and non-existence to something that transcends them both; this is an observation of the Middle Way.
Consistency requires you to be as ignorant today as you were a year ago. 
Without health life is not life; it is only a state of langour and suffering - an image of death.
Acting is not being emotional, but being able to express emotion.
We are forced to participate in the games of life before we can possibly learn how to use the options in the rules governing them.
I was born in 1962. True. And the room next to me was 1963.
Life is the game that must be played, this truth at least, good friends, we know; so live and laugh, nor be dismayed as one by one the phantoms go.
Love begets love. This torment is my joy.
A country can get more real joy out of just hollering for their freedom than they can if they get it.
Half our life is spent trying to find something to do with the time we have rushed through life trying to save.
The doctrine that the earth is neither the center of the universe nor immovable, but moves even with a daily rotation, is absurd, and both philosophically and theologically false, and at the least an error of faith. (Decision against Galileo)
Let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
Far better it is to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure, than to take rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in the grey twilight that knows not victory nor defeat.
A man is not old as long as he is seeking something.
We emphasize that we believe in change because we were born of it, we have lived by it, we prospered and grew great by it. So the status quo has never been our god, and we ask no one else to bow down before it.
Falling in love consists merely in uncorking the imagination and bottling the common-sense.
I\'m passionately involved in life: I love its change, its color, its movement. To be alive, to be able to see, to walk, to have houses, music, paintings--iT\'s All A Miracle.
He is the greatest artist who has embodied, in the sum of his works, the greatest number of the greatest ideas.
Change is one thing, progress is another. ?Change? is scientific, ?progress? is ethical; change is indubitable, whereas progress is a matter of controversy.
Freedom of opinion can only exist when the government thinks itself secure.
Man needs, for his happiness, not only the enjoyment of this or that, but hope and enterprise and change. 
Italy, and the spring and first love all together should suffice to make the gloomiest person happy. 
If all our happiness is bound up entirely in our personal circumstances it is difficult not to demand of life more than it has to give. 
Many people when they fall in love look for a little haven of refuge from the world, where they can be sure of being admired when they are not admirable, and praised when they are not praiseworthy.
Love is something far more than desire for sexual intercourse; it is the principal means of escape from the loneliness which afflicts most men and women throughout the greater part of their lives.
As a rock on the seashore he standeth firm, and the dashing of the waves disturbeth him not.  He raiseth his head like a tower on a hill, and the arrows of fortune drop at his feet.  In the instant of danger, the courage of his heart sustaineth him; and the steadiness of his mind beareth him out.
Labour not after riches first, and think thou afterwards wilt enjoy them.  He who neglecteth the present moment, throweth away all that he hath.  As the arrow passeth through the heart, while the warrior knew not that it was coming;  so shall his life be taken away before he knoweth that he hath it.
If thou be industrious to procure wealth, be generous in the disposal of it.  Man never is so happy as when he giveth happiness unto another.
As the blessings of health and fortune have a beginning, so they must also find an end.  Everything rises but to fall, and increases but to decay.
Valor is a gift. Those having it never know for sure whether they have it till the test comes. And those having it in one test never know for sure if they will have it when the next test comes.
Experience seems to most of us to lead to conclusions, but empiricism has sworn never to draw them.
A string of excited, fugitive, miscellaneous pleasures is not happiness; happiness resides in imaginative reflection and judgment, when the picture of one's life, or of human life, as it truly has been or is, satisfies the will, and is gladly accepted.
Man is condemned to be free; because once thrown into the world, he is responsible for everything he does.
Art is the right hand of Nature.  The latter has only given us being, the former has made us men.
That which is so universal as death must be a benefit.
All truth passes through three stages. First it is ridiculed. Second it is violently opposed. Third it is accepted as being self-evident. 
Change alone is eternal, perpetual, immortal.
Love rules the court, the camp, the grove, And men below, and saints above: For love is heaven, and heaven is love.
Be happy while you're living, for you're a long time dead. 
It is the failing of youth not to be able to restrain its own violence.
The greatest remedy for anger is delay.
To wish to be well is a part of becoming well.
A great mind becomes a great fortune.
There is no genius free from some tincture of madness.
No man enjoys the true taste of life, but he who is ready and willing to quit it.
As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.
Everything is the product of one universal creative effort.  There is nothing dead in Nature.  Everything is organic and living, and therefore the whole world appears to be a living organism.
If you wished to be loved, love.
Sometimes even to live is an act of courage. 
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, Which hurts and is desired.
Things done well and with a care, exempt themselves from fear.
But O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes. 
The course of true love never did run smooth.
They do not love that do not show their love.
Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better. 
Love is a spirit of all compact of fire.
Down on your knees, and thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love. (<u>As You Like It</u>)
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind; <
Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs, <
Any person under the age of thirty, who, having any knowledge of the existing social order, is not a revolutionist, is an inferio
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable man persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore, all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
Assassination is the extreme form of censorship. 
First love is only a little foolishness and a lot of curiosity: no really self-respecting woman would take advantage of 
Life may change, but it may fly not; Hope may vanish, but can die not; Truth be veiled, but still it burneth; Love repulsed, - but it returneth.
This free will business is a bit terrifying anyway. It's almost pleasanter to obey, and make the most of it.
Regularity in the hours of rising and retiring, perseverance in exercise, adaptation of dress to the variations of climate, simple and nutritious aliment, and temperance in all things are necessary branches of the regimen of health.
Painting is silent poetry, and poetry is painting that speaks.
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it.  (Song of Solomon 8:7)
Every human being is the author of his own health or disease.
Life is short.  Time is fleeting.  Realise the Self.  Purity of the heart is the gateway to God.  Aspire.  Renounce.  Meditate.  Be good;  do good.  Be kind;  be compassionate.  Inquire, know Thyself.
Life is a pilgrimage. The wise man does not rest by the roadside inns.  He marches direct to the illimitable domain of eternal bliss, his ultimate destination.
Change can take place only when liberal and radical pressures are both strong. Intelligent liberals have always recognized the debt they owe to radicals, whose existence permits liberals to push further than they would otherwise have dared, all the while posing as compromisers and mediators. Radicals, however, have been somewhat less sensible of their debt to liberals, partly because of the rather single-minded discipline radicals are almost forced to maintain, plagued as they always are by liberal backsliding and timidity on the one hand and various forms of self-destructiveness and romantic posing on the other.... Liberal reforms and radical change are thus complementary rather than antagonistic. Together they make it possible continually to test the limits of what can be done. Liberals never know whether the door is unlocked because they are afraid to try it. Radicals, on the other hand, miss many opportunities for small advances because they are unwilling to settle for so little.
A person over age 65 who drinks says that his doctor recommends it.
The test of courage comes when we are in the minority. The test of tolerance comes when we are in the majority.
The unexamined life is not worth living.
Age that period of life in which we compound for the vices that we still cherish by reviling those that we no longer have the enterprise to commit.
Just because everything is different doesn't mean anything has changed. 
It is the mind that maketh good or ill, That maketh wretch or happy, rich or poor.
He alone is free who lives with free consent under the entire guidance of reason.
The best medicine I know for rheumatism is to thank the Lord that it ain't gout.
Indeed, man wishes to be happy even when he so lives as to make happiness impossible.
A single death is a tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic.
To be loved at first sight, a man should have at the same time something to respect and something to pity in his face.
Art is the tree of life. Science is the tree of death. God is Jesus.
He who binds to himself a joy Does the winged life destroy; But he who kisses the joy as it files Lives in eternity's sun rise.
Never rail at the world, it is just as we make it,-  We see not the flower if we sow not the seed;  And as for ill-luck, why, it's just as we take it,-  The heart that's in earnest no bars can impede.
Love in its essence is spiritual fire. 
Words are but wind; and learning is nothing but words; ergo, learning is nothing but wind. 
So weak thou art that fools thy power despise; And yet so strong, thou triumph'st o'er the wise.
The happy man is not he who seems thus to others, but who seems thus to himself. 
Some remedies are worse than the disease.
Each day is the scholar of yesterday. 
The appearance and disappearance of the Universe are pictured as an outbreathing and inbreathing of "the Great Breath," which is eternal, and which, being Motion, is one of the three aspects of the Absolute - Abstract Space and Duration being the other two.
When to the Permanent is sacrificed the Mutable, the prize is thine:  the drop returneth whence it came.  The Open Path leads to the changeless change - Non-Being, the glorious state of Absoluteness, the Bliss past human thought.
The more thou dost advance, the more thy feet pitfalls will meet.  The Path that leadeth on is lighted by one fire- the light of daring burning in the heart. The more one dares, the more he shall obtain.  The more he fears, the more that light shall pale - and that alone can guide.
Old things are always in good repute, present things in disfavor.
The greatest problem about old age is the fear that it may go on too long.
Fear is the mother of foresight.
Life has loveliness to sell,  All beautiful and splendid things,  Blue waves whitened on a cliff,  Soaring fire that sways and sings  And children's faces looking up  Holding wonder like a cup.
A bird in the hand is safer thantwo overhead. All courageous animals are carnivorous, and greater courage is to be expected in a people, such as the English, whose food is strong and hearty, than in the half starved commonalty of other countries. 
Health is the soul that animates all the enjoyments of life, which fade and are tasteless without it.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
I am a part of all that I have met.
All experience is an arch wherethrough gleams that untravelled world whose margin fades for ever and for ever when I move.
'Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all. 
When we are well, we all have good advice for those who are ill.
Things do not change, we do.
There is no remedy for love but to love more.
Nowadays men lead lives of noisy desperation.
Few ever lived to a great age, and fewer still ever became distinguished, who were not in the habit of early rising.
Art is not a handicraft, it is the transmission of feeling the artist has experienced.
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.
If so many men, so many minds, certainly so many hearts, so many kinds of love. 
Old age is the most unexpected of things that can happen to a man.
The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young.
There has never been an intelligent person of the age of sixty who would consent to live his life over again. His or anyone else
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear.
We should be careful to get out of an experience only the wisdom that is in it?and stop there; lest we be like the cat that sits down on a hot stove-lid. She will never sit down on a hot stove-lid again?and that is well; but also she will never sit down on a cold one anymore.
There are people who can do all fine and heroic things but one - keep from telling their happiness to the unhappy. 
Age is a high price to pay for maturity.
Age isn't important unless you're a cheese.
What garlic is to food, insanity is to art.
A critic is a legless man who teaches running.
Love is what the heart needs. 
If it's wrong to love you, then my heart just wont let me be right.
Love is perfect, even when we are not. 
A heart that loves is always young. 
Love is knowing that you want to spend the rest ofyour life with someone, and not knowing if they want to spend it with you.
There is only one sort of love but there are athousand of copies. 
Love doesn't cause pain, people do. 
Love is very real, you will find it someday, but it has one enemy-and that's life. 
Love. What is love? No one can define it, its something so great, only God could design it. Yes, love is beyond, what man can define, for love is immortal, and God's gift is divine. 
If love is shelter, I'm going to walk in the rain.
No matter what you've done for yourself or for humanity, if you can't look back on having given love and attention to your own family, what have you really accomplished? 
I have to admit that I fell in love twice. First was with you and the second was with the person you became when you were already mine.
Life is the fire that burns and the sun that gives light.  Life is the wind and the rain and the thunder in the sky.  Life is matter and is earth, what is and what is not, and what beyond is in Eternity.
Age carries all things away, even the mind.
Love is a canvas furnished by Nature and embroidered by imagination.
Love has features which pierce all hearts, he wears a bandage which conceals the faults of those beloved. He has wings, he comes quickly and flies away the same.
Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be prepared for changes. 
Discovery consists in seeing whateveryone else has seen and thinking what no one else has thought.
Fantasy love is much better than reality love. Never doing it is very exciting. The most exciting attractions are between two opposites that never meet.
To speak of "limits to growth" under a capitalistic market economy is as meaningless as to speak of limits of warfare under a warrior society. The moral pieties, that are voiced today by many well meaning environmentalists, are as naive as the moral pieties of multinationals are manipulative. Capitalism can no more be "persuaded" to limit growth than a human being can be "persuaded" to stop breathing. Attempts to "green" capitalism, to make it "ecological", are doomed by the very nature of the system as a system of endless growth. 
Arbitrary power is most easily established on the ruins of liberty abused to licentiousness.
Only when one has lost all curiosity about the future has one reached the age to write an autobiography.
I passionately hate the idea of being with it, I think an artist has always to be out of step with his time.  
Another unsettling element in modern art is that common symptom of immaturity, the dread of doing what has been done before.
When I was a child people simply looked about them and were moderately happy; today they peer beyond the seven seas, bury themselves waist deep in tidings, and by and large what they see and hear makes them unutterably sad.
Unknown to her the rigid rule,  The dull restraint, the chiding frown  The weary torture of the school,  The taming of wild nature down. 
Thirty-five is a very attractive age, London society is full of women of the very highest birth who have, of their own free choice, remained thirty-five for years.
One should never trust a woman who tells one her real age. A woman who would tell one that, would tell one anything.
Show respect for age. Drink good scotch for a change. The old believe everything: the middle-aged suspect everything: the young know everything. 
It is only an auctioneer who can equally and impartially admire all schools of art.
A work of art is the unique result of a unique temperament.
I don't desire to change anything in England except the weather.
Consistency is the last refuge of the unimaginative.
Ambition is the last refuge of the failure.
The old believe everything; the middle-aged suspect everything; the young know everything.
When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls a romance.
When a man has once loved a woman he will do anything for her except continue to love her.
Yet each man kills the thing he loves,  By each let this be heard,  Some do it with a bitter look,  Some with a flattering word.  The coward does it with a kiss,  The brave man with a sword!
A bird in the hand is dead.
There is a land of the living and a land of the dead and the bridge is love, the only survival, the only meaning. 
To love is to place our happiness in the happiness of another.
Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we learned here.
He who rejects change is the architect of decay. The only human institution which rejects progress is the cemetery.
We are shaped and fashioned by what we love.
The tendency to believe that things never change, the inertia of daily existence, is a staple of living. It has always been a delusion.
A man falls in love through his eyes, a woman through her ears.